Exercise 1
Questions 1 to 3 are based on the following reading passage.
Immediately relevant to game theory are the sex
ratios in certain parasitic wasp species that have a
large excess of females. In these species, fertilized eggs
Line develop into females and unfertilized eggs into males.
5
A female stores sperm and can determine the sex of
each egg she lays by fertilizing it or leaving it
unfertilized. By Fisher's genetic argument that the sex
ratio will be favored which maximizes the number of
descendants an individual will have and hence the
10 number of gene copies transmitted, it should pay a
female to produce equal numbers of sons and daughters.
Hamilton, noting that the eggs develop within their
host-the larva of another insect-and that the newly
emerged adult wasps mate immediately and disperse,
15 offered a remarkably cogent analysis. Since only one
female usually lays eggs in a given larva, it would pay
her to produce one male only, because this one male
could fertilize all his sisters on emergence. Like Fisher,
Hamilton looked for an evolutionarily stable strategy,
20 but he went a step further in recognizing that he was
looking for a strategy.
1. The author suggests that the work of Fisher and
Hamilton was similar in that both scientists
(A) conducted their research at approximately
the same time
(B) sought to manipulate the sex ratios of some
of the animals they studied
(C) sought an explanation of why certain sex
ratios exist and remain stable
(D) studied game theory, thereby providing important
groundwork for the later development of strategy
theory
(E) studied reproduction in the same animal species
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
2. The passage contains information that would
answer which of the following questions about
wasps?
A How many eggs does the female wasp
□
usually lay in a single host larva?
B
□ Can some species of wasp determine sex
ratios among their offspring?
C What is the approximate sex ratio
□
among the offspring of parasitic wasps?
3. Which of the following is NOT true of the species of
parasitic wasps discussed in the passage?
(A) Adult female wasps are capable of storing sperm.
(B) Female wasps lay their eggs in the larvae of
other insects.
(C) The adult female wasp can be fertilized by a male that
was hatched in the same larva as herself.
(D) So few male wasps are produced that extinction is
almost certain.
(E) Male wasps do not emerge from their hosts until they
reach sexual maturity.
1Questions 4 to 5 are based on the following reading passage.
Tocqueville, apparently, was wrong. Jacksonian
4. According to the passage, Pessen indicates that all of
America was not a fluid, egalitarian society where the following were true of the very wealthy in the United
individual wealth and poverty were ephemeral States between 1825 and 1850 EXCEPT:
Line conditions. At least to argues E. Pessen in his
5
iconoclastic study of the very rich in the United States (A) They formed a distinct upper class.
between 1825 and 1850. (B) Many of them were able to increase their holdings.
Pessen does present a quantity of examples, together
(C)Some of them worked as professionals or in
with some refreshingly intelligible statistics, to establish
10
business.
the existence of an inordinately wealthy class. Though (D) Most of them accumulated their own fortunes.
active in commerce or the professions, most of the (E) Many of them retained their wealth in spite of
wealthy were not self-made, but had inherited family
financial upheavals.
fortunes. In no sense mercurial, these great fortunes
5. Which of the following best states the author's
survived the financial panics that destroyed lesser ones.
Indeed, in several cities the wealthiest one percent
15
main point?
(A) Pessen's study has overturned the previously
constantly increased its share until by 1850 it owned
half of the community's wealth. Although these established view of the social and economic
observations are true, Pessen overestimates their structure of early nineteenth-century America.
(B) Tocqueville's analysis of the United States
importance by concluding from them that the undoubted
20
progress toward inequality in the late eighteenth century in the Jacksonian era remains the definitive
continued in the Jacksonian period and that the United account of this period.
(C) Pessen's study is valuable primarily because
States was a class-ridden, plutocratic society even
before industrialization.
(162 words)
it shows the continuity of the social
system in the United States throughout
the nineteenth century.
(D) The social patterns and political power of
the extremely wealthy in the United
States between 1825 and 1850 are well
documented.
(E) Pessen challenges a view of the social and
economic system in the United States
from 1825 to 1850, but he draws
conclusions that are incorrect.
26. The passage's suggestion that the total anaerobic
Anaerobic glycolysis is a process in which energy is
produced, without oxygen, through the breakdown of energy reserves of a vertebrate are proportional to the
muscle glycogen into lactic acid and adenosine tri- vertebrate's size is based on which of the following
Line phosphate (ATP), the energy provider. The amount
5
assumption?
of energy that can be produced anaerobically is a
(A) larger vertebrates conserve more energy
function of the amount of glycogen present-in all
than smaller vertebrates
vertebrates about 0.5 percent of their muscles' wet
(B) larger vertebrates use less oxygen per unit
weight. Thus the anaerobic energy reserves of a verte-
weight than smaller vertebrates
brate are proportional to the size of the animal. If, for
10
(C) the ability of a vertebrate to consume food
example, some predators had attacked a 100-ton
is a function of its size
dinosaur, normally torpid, the dinosaur would have
(D) the amount of muscle tissue in a vertebrate
been able to generate almost instantaneously, via
is directly related to its size
anaerobic glycolysis, the energy of 3,000 humans at
(E) the size of a vertebrate is proportional to
maximum oxidative metabolic energy production.
the quantity of energy it can utilize
3study of his compositions reveals that Beethoven
overturned no fundamental rules. Rather, he was an
50 incomparable strategist who exploited limits-the
rules, forms, and conventions that he inherited from
predecessors such as Haydn and Mozart, Handel and
Bach-in strikingly original ways.
(466words)
Extraordinary creative activity has been characterized
as revolutionary, flying in the face of what is established
and producing not what is acceptable but what will
Line become accepted. According to this formulation, highly
5
creative activity transcends the limits of an existing form
and establishes a new principle of organization. How-
ever, the idea that extraordinary creativity transcends
established limits in misleading when it is applied to the
arts, even though it may be valid for the sciences.
10 Difference between highly creative art and highly creative
science arise in part from a difference in their goals. For
the sciences, a new theory is the goal and end result of the
creative act. Innovative science produces new
propositions in terms of which diverse phenomena can be
15 related to one another in more coherent ways. Such
phenomena as a brilliant diamond or a nesting bird are
relegated to the role of data, serving as the means for
formulating or testing a new theory. The goal of highly
creative art is very different: the phenomenon itself
20 becomes the direct product of the creative act.
Shakespeare's Hamlet is not a tract about the behavior of
indecisive princes or the uses of political power; nor is
Picasso's painting Guernica primarily a propositional
statement about the Spanish Civil War or the evils of
25 fascism. What highly creative artistic activity produces is
not a new generalization that transcends established limits,
but rather an aesthetic particular. Aesthetic particulars
produced by the highly creative artist extend or
exploit, in an innovative way, the limits of an existing
30 form, rather than transcend that form.
This is not to deny that a highly creative artist some-
times establishes a new principle of organization in the
history of an artistic field; the composer Monteverdi,
who created music of the highest aesthetic value, comes
35 to mind. More generally, however, whether or not a
composition establishes a new principle in the history of
music has little bearing on its aesthetic worth. Because
they embody a new principle of organization, some
musical works, such as the operas of the Florentine
40 Camerata, are of signal historical importance, but few
listeners or musicologists would include these among the
great works of music. On the other hand, Mozart's The
Marriage of Figaro is surely among the masterpieces of
music even though its modest innovations are confined
45 to extending existing means. It has been said of
Beethoven that he toppled the rules and freed music
from the stifling confines of convention. But a close
4For the following question, consider each of the
9. The author implies that an innovative scientific
choices separately and select all that apply
contribution is one that
(A) is cited with high frequency in the publications
7. The passage supplies information for answering which
of other scientists
of the following questions?
(B) is accepted immediately by the scientific com-
(A) Has unusual creative activity been character-
munity
ized as revolutionary?
(C) does not relegate particulars to the role of data
(B) Did Beethoven work within a musical tradition
(D) presents the discovery of a new scientific fact
that also included Handel and Bach?
(E) introduces a new valid generalization
(C) Who besides Monteverdi wrote music that the
author would consider to embody new prin- 10. Which of the following statements would most
ciples of organization and to be of high aes- logically concluded the last paragraph of the
thetic value? passage?
(A) Unlike Beethoven, however, even the greatest
8. The author regards the idea that all highly creative
of modern composers, such as Stravinsky, did
artistic activity transcends limits with
not transcend existing musical forms.
(A) deep skepticism
(B) In similar fashion, existing musical forms were
(B) strong indignation even further exploited by the next generation
(C) marked indifference of great European composers.
(D) moderate amusement
(C) Thus, many of the great composers displayed
(E) sharp derision
the same combination of talents exhibited by
Monteverdi.
(D) By contrast, the view that creativity in the arts
exploits but does not transcend limits is sup-
ported in the field of literature.
(E) Actually, Beethoven's most original works were
largely unappreciated at the time that they
were first performed.
5Great comic art is never otherwordly, it does not 11. Select the sentence in the passage that suggests that
seek to mystify us, and it does not deny ambiguity by great comic art can be characterized as optimistic about
branding as evil whatever differs from good. Great the ability of humans to act rationally.
Line comic artists assume that truth may bear all lights,
5
and thus they seek to accentuate contradictions in
12. It can be inferred from the passage that the
social action, not gloss over or transcend them by author admires great comic artists primarily
appeals to extrasocial symbols of divine ends, cosmic for their
purpose, or laws of nature. The moment of (A) ability to understand the frequently subtle
transcendence in great comic art is a social moment,
10
differences between good and evil
born out of the conviction that we are human, even
(B) ability to reconcile the contradictions in
though we try to be gods. The comic community to
human behavior
which artists address themselves is a community of
(C) ability to distinguish between rational and
reasoning, loving, joyful, compassionate beings, who
irrational behavior
are willing to assume the human risks of acting
15
(D) insistence on confronting the truth about
rationally. Without invoking gods or demons, great
the human condition
comic art arouses courage in reason, courage which
(E) insistence on condemning human faults and
grows out of trust in what human beings can do as
weaknesses
humans.
13. Which of the following is the most accurate
description of the organization of the passage?
(A) A sequence of observations leading to a prediction
(B) A list of inferences drawn from facts stated at the
beginning of the passage
(C) A series of assertions related to one general subject
(D) A statement of the major idea, followed by
specific examples
(E) A succession of ideas moving from specific to
general
6Exercise 2
By 1950, the results of attempts to relate brain
2. The description of an experiment in which electric
processes to mental experience appeared rather stimuli were applied to different sensory fields of the
discouraging. Herring suggested that different modes of cerebral cortex tends to support the theory that
Line sensation, such as pain, taste, and color, might be
5
(A) the simple presence of different cortical areas
correlated with the discharge of specific kinds of nervous cannot account for the diversity of mental
energy. However, subsequently developed methods of experience
recording and analyzing nerve potentials failed to reveal
(B) variation in spatiotemporal patterning of nerve
any such qualitative diversity. Although qualitative
impulses correlates with variation in
variance among nerve energies was never rigidly
10
subjective experience
disproved, the doctrine was generally abandoned in favor
(C) nerve impulses are essentially homogeneous
of the opposing view, namely, that nerve impulses are and are relatively unaffected as they travel
essentially homogeneous in quality and are transmitted as through the nervous system
―common currency‖ throughout the nervous system.
15
(D) the mental experiences produced by sensory
According to this theory, it is not the quality of the nerve impulses are determined by the
sensory nerve impulses that determines the diverse cortical area activated
conscious sensations they produce, but rather the different
(E) variation in neuron types affects the quality of
areas of the brain into which they discharge, and there is
nerve impulses
some evidence for this view. In one experiment, when an
electric stimulus was applied to a given sensory field of
20
3. Which of the following best summarizes the
the cerebral cortex of a conscious human subject, it author's opinion of the suggestion that different
produced a sensation of the appropriate modality for that areas of the brain determine perceptions produced
particular locus, that is, a visual sensation from the visual by sensory nerve impulses?
cortex, an auditory sensation from the auditory cortex, (A) It is a plausible explanation, but it has not been
and so on. However, cortical locus, in itself, turned out to
25
completely proved.
have little explanatory value.
(B) It is the best explanation of brain processes
currently available.
1. The author mentions ―common currency‖ in line 13
(C) It is disproved by the fact that the various areas
primarily in order to emphasize the
of the brain are physiologically very similar.
(A) lack of differentiation among nerve impulses in
(D) There is some evidence to support it, but it fails
human beings
to explain the diversity of mental experience.
(B) similarity of the sensations that all human
(E) There is experimental evidence that confirms its
beings experience
correctness.
(C) similarities in the views of scientists who have
studied the human nervous system
(D) continuous passage of nerve impulses through
the nervous system
(E) recurrent questioning by scientists of an
accepted explanation about the nervous
system
7A Marxist sociologist has argued that racism stems
4. The passage supplies information that would
from the class struggle that is unique to the capitalist
answer which of the following questions EXCEPT?
system-that racial prejudice is generated by capitalists
A What conditions caused the discrimination
□
against Oriental people in California in the
early twentieth century?
B
□ What evidence did the Marxist sociologist
Line as a means of controlling workers. His thesis works
5
relatively well when applied to discrimination against
Blacks in the United States, but his definition of racial
prejudice as ―racially-based negative prejudgments
provide to support his thesis?
C What explanation did the Marxist sociologist
□
give for the existence of racial prejudice?
against a group generally accepted as a race in any
given region of ethnic competition,‖ can be interpreted
10
as also including hostility toward such ethnic groups as
the Chinese in California and the Jews in medieval
5. According to the passage, the Marxist sociologist's
Europe. However, since prejudice against these latter
chain of reasoning required him to assert that
peoples was not inspired by capitalists, he has to reason
prejudice toward Oriental people in California was
that such antagonisms were not really based on race.
15
(A) directed primarily against the Chinese
He disposes thusly (albeit unconvincingly) of both the
(B) similar in origin to prejudice against the Jews
intolerance faced by Jews before the rise of capitalism
(C) understood by Oriental people as ethnic
and the early twentieth-century discrimination against
competition
Oriental people in California, which, inconveniently,
(D) provoked by workers
was instigated by workers.
(E) nonracial in character
8It would be wonderful to observe a singularity (an
6. Which of the following sentences would most
infinitely dense concentration of matter) and probably follow the last sentence of the passage?
obtain direct evidence of the undoubtedly bizarre (A) Thus, a physicist interested in studying
phenomena that occur near one. Unfortunately, in phenomena near singularities would
most cases a distant observer cannot see the necessarily hope to find a singularity
singularity; outgoing light rays are dragged back by with a measurable gravitational field.
gravity so forcefully that even if they could start out
(B) Accordingly, physicists to date have
within a few kilometers of the singularity, they would end been unable to observe directly any
up in the singularity itself. singularity.
(C) It is specifically this startling phenomenon
that has allowed us to codify the scant
information currently available about
singularities.
(D) Moreover, the existence of this extra-
ordinary phenomenon is implied in the
extensive reports of several physicists.
(E) Although unanticipated, phenomena such
as these are consistent with the structure
of a singularity.
9The evolution of intelligence among early large
mammals of the grasslands was due in great measure to
the interaction between two ecologically synchronized
Line groups of these animals, the hunting carnivores and the
5
herbivores that they hunted. The interaction resulting
from the differences between predator and prey led to a
general improvement in brain functions; however, certain
components of intelligence were improved far more than
others.
10
The kind of intelligence favored by the interplay of
increasingly smarter catchers and increasingly keener
escapers is defined by attention-that aspect of mind
carrying consciousness forward from one moment to the
next. It ranges from a passive, free-floating awareness to
15 a highly focused, active fixation. The range through these
states is mediated by the arousal system, a network of
tracts converging from sensory systems to integrating
centers in the brain stem. From the more relaxed to the
more vigorous levels, sensitivity to novelty is increased.
20 The organism is more awake, more vigilant; this
increased vigilance results in the apprehension of ever
more subtle signals as the organism becomes more
sensitive to its surroundings. The processes of arousal and
concentration give attention its direction. Arousal is at
25 first general, with a flooding of impulses in the brain stem;
then gradually the activation is channeled. Thus begins
concentration, the holding of consistent images. One
meaning of intelligence is the way in which these images
and other alertly searched information are used in the
30 context of previous experience. Consciousness links past
attention to the present and permits the integration of
details with perceived ends and purposes.
The elements of intelligence and consciousness come
together marvelously to produce different styles in
35 predator and prey. Herbivores and carnivores develop
different kinds of attention related to escaping or chasing.
Although in both kinds of animal, arousal stimulates the
production of adrenaline and norepinephrine by the
adrenal glands, the effect in herbivores is primarily fear,
40 whereas in carnivores the effect is primarily aggression.
For both, arousal attunes the animal to what is ahead.
Perhaps it does not experience forethought as we know it,
but the animal does experience something like it. The
predator is searchingly aggressive, inner-directed, tuned
45 by the nervous system and the adrenal hormones, but
aware in a sense closer to human consciousness than, say,
a hungry lizard's instinctive snap at a passing beetle.
Using past events as a framework, the large mammal
predator is working out a relationship between
50 movement and food, sensitive to possibilities in cold
trails and distant sounds-and yesterday's unforgotten
lessons. The herbivore prey is of a different mind. Its
mood of wariness rather than searching and its attitude
of general expectancy instead of anticipating are
55 silk-thin veils of tranquility over an explosive endocrine
system.
107. The author refers to a hungry lizard (line 47)
9. The author provides information that would
primarily in order to
answer which of the following questions?
(A) demonstrate the similarity between the
hunting methods of mammals and those
A Why is an aroused herbivore usually fearful?
□
B What are some of the degrees of attention in large
□
of nonmammals
(B) broaden the application of his argument by
mammals?
C
□ What occurs when the stimulus that causes arousal of
including an insectivore as an example
(C) make a distinction between higher and
a mammal is removed?
lower levels of consciousness
(D) provide an additional illustration of the
10. According to the passage, as the process of
brutality characteristic of predators
arousal in an organism continues, all of the
(E) offer an objection to suggestions that all
following may occur EXCEPT
animals lack consciousness
(A) the production of adrenaline
(B) the production of norepinephrine
8. It can be inferred from the passage that in
(C) a heightening of sensitivity to stimuli
animals less intelligent than the mammals (D) an increase in selectivity with respect to stimuli
discussed in the passage (E) an expansion of the range of states mediated
(A) past experience is less helpful in ensuring survival
by the brain stem
(B) attention is more highly focused
(C) muscular coordination is less highly developed
(D) there is less need for competition among species
(E) environment is more important in establishing
the proper ratio of prey to predator
11Gutman's examination of the slaves' extended kinship
11. According to the passage, all of the following
system produces important findings. Gutman discovers are true of the West African rules governing
that cousins rarely married, an exogamous tendency that marriage:
Line contrasted sharply with the endogamy practiced by the
5
plantation owners. This preference for exogamy, Gutman A The rules forbade marriages between
□
suggests, may have derived from West African rules close kin.
B
□ The rules were not uniform in all respects
from one West African tribe to another.
C The rules have been considered to be a
□
governing marriage, which, though they differed from
one tribal group to another, all involved some kind of
prohibition against unions with close kin. This taboo
10
against cousins' marrying is important, argues Gutman, possible source of slaves' marriage
because it is one of many indications of a strong preferences.
awareness among slaves of an extended kinship network.
The fact that distantly related kin would care for children
15
12. Which of the following statements concerning
separated from their families also suggests this the marriage practices of plantation owners
awareness. When blood relationships were few, as in during the period of Black slavery in the United
newly created plantations in the Southwest, ―fictive‖ States can most logically be inferred from the
kinship arrangements took their place until a new pattern information in the passage.
of consanguinity developed. Gutman presents convincing (A) These practices began to alter sometime
evidence that this extended kinship structure-which he
20
around the mid-eighteenth century.
believes developed by the mid-to-late eighteenth (B) These practices varied markedly from one
century-provided the foundations for the strong region of the country to another.
communal consciousness that existed among slaves.
(C) Plantation owners usually based their
choice of marriage partners on economic
considerations.
(D) Plantation owners often married earlier
than slaves.
(E) Plantation owners often married their
cousins.
13. Select the sentence in the passage that the author
introduces additional support for the existence of the
awareness of kinship among the slaves of an extended
kinship network.
12Exercise 3
The dark regions in the starry night sky are not
1. According to the passage, which of the following
pockets in the universe that are devoid of stars as is a direct perceptual consequence of interstellar
had long been thought. Rather, they are dark because dust EXCEPT?
Line of interstellar dust that hides the stars behind it.
5
A Some stars are rendered invisible to observers on
□
Although its visual effect is so pronounced, dust is
only a minor constituent of the material, extremely
Earth.
B Many visible stars are made to seem brighter than
□
they really are.
low in density, that lies between the stars. The average
density of interstellar material in the vicinity of our Sun is
C The dust is conspicuously visible against a
□
background of bright stars.
1,000 to 10,000 times less than the best terrestrial
10
laboratory vacuum. It is only because of the enormous
interstellar distances that so little material per unit of
volume becomes so significant. Optical astronomy
2. It can be inferred from the passage that it is
is most directly affected, for although interstellar gas
because space is so vast that
is perfectly transparent, the dust is not. (125 words)
(A) little of the interstellar material in it seems substantial
(B) normal units of volume seem futile for measurements
of density
(C) stars can be far enough from Earth to be obscured
even by very sparsely distributed matter
(D) interstellar gases can, for all practical purposes, be
regarded as transparent
(E) optical astronomy would be of little use even if no
interstellar dust existed
13In Hardy's novels, various impulses were sacrificed to
each other inevitably and often. Inevitably, because Hardy
did not care in the way that novelists such as
Line Flaubert or James cared, and therefore took paths of least
5
resistance. Thus, one impulse often surrendered to a
fresher one and, unfortunately, instead of exacting a
compromise, simply disappeared. A desire to throw over
reality a light that never was might give way abruptly to
the desire on the part of what we might consider a
10 novelist-scientist to record exactly and concretely the
structure and texture of a flower. In this instance, the new
impulse was at least an energetic one, and thus its
indulgence did not result in a relaxed style. But on other
occasions Hardy abandoned a perilous, risky, and highly
15 energizing impulse in favor of what was for him the
fatally relaxing impulse to classify and schematize
abstractly. When a relaxing impulse was indulged, the
style-that sure index of an author's literary worth-was
certain to become verbose. (167 words)
4. The passage supplies information to suggest that
its author would be most likely to agree with
which of the following statements about the
novelists Flaubert and James?
(A) They indulged more impulses in their
novels than did Hardy in his novels.
(B) They have elicited a greater degree of
favorable response from most literary
critics than has Hardy.
(C) In the writing of their novels, they often
took pains to effect a compromise among
their various novelistic impulses.
(D) Regarding novelistic construction, they
cared more about the opinions of other
novelists than about the opinions of
ordinary readers.
(E) They wrote novels in which the impulse
toward realism and the impulse away
from realism were evident in equal
measure.
3. Which of the following words could best be
substituted for ―relaxed‖ (line 13) without
substantially changing the author's meaning?
(A) informal
(B) confined
(C) risky
(D) wordy
(E) metaphoric
5. Which of the following statements best describes
the organization of the passage (―Thus...abstractly‖)?
(A) The author makes a disapproving
observation and then presents two cases,
one of which leads to a qualification of
his disapproval and the other of which
does not.
(B) The author draws a conclusion from a
previous statement, explains his
conclusion in detail, and then gives a
series of examples that have the effect of
resolving an inconsistency.
(C) The author concedes a point and then
makes a counterargument, using an
extended comparison and contrast that
qualifies his original concession.
(D) The author makes a judgment, points out
an exception to his judgment, and then
contradicts his original assertion.
(E) The author summarizes and explains an
argument and then advances a brief
history of opposing arguments.
14A mysterious phenomenon is the ability of over-water
7. It can be inferred from the passage that if the
migrants to travel on course. Birds, bees, and other flock of birds described in lines 8-9 were
species can keep track of time without any sensory cues navigating by compass sense alone, they would, after
Line from the outside world, and such ―biological clocks‖
5
the storm, fly
clearly contribute to their ―compass sense.‖ For example, (A) east (B) north
they can use the position of the Sun or stars, along with (D) south (E) southeast
(C) northwest
the time of day, to find north. But compass sense alone
cannot explain how birds navigate the ocean: after a flock
10
15
8. Of the following descriptions of migrating
traveling east is blown far south by a storm, it will animals, which most strongly suggests that the
assume the proper northeasterly course to compensate. animals are depending on magnetic cues to orient
Perhaps, some scientists thought, migrants determine themselves?
their geographic position on Earth by celestial navigation, (A) Pigeons can properly readjust their course
almost as human navigators use stars and planets, but this even when flying long distances through
would demand of the animals a fantastic map sense. exceedingly dense fogs.
Researchers now know that some species have a magnetic
(B) Bison are able to reach their destination by
sense, which might allow migrants to determine their passing through a landscape that has
geographic location by detecting variations in the strength been partially altered by a recent fire.
of the Earth's magnetic field.
(157 words)
(C) Elephants are able to find grounds that
some members of the herd have never seen
before.
6. The main idea of the passage is that
(D) Swallows are able to return to a given spot
(A) migration over land requires a simpler
at the same time every year.
explanation than migration over water
(E) Monarch butterflies coming from different
does
parts of North America are able to arrive
(B) the means by which animals migrate over
at the same location each winter.
water are complex and only partly
understood
(C) the ability of migrant animals to keep track
of time is related to their magnetic sense
(D) knowledge of geographic location is
essential to migrants with little or no
compass sense
(E) explanations of how animals migrate tend to
replace, rather than build on, one
another
15Starting from the premise that mythology and legend
9. The primary purpose of the passage is to
preserve at least a nucleus of historical fact, Bachofen
(A) compare competing new approaches to
argued that women were dominant in many ancient
understanding the role of women in ancient
Line societies. His work was based on a comprehensive survey
5
societies
of references in the ancient sources to Amazonian and
(B) investigate the ramifications of Bachofen's
other societies with matrilineal customs-societies in theory about the dominance of women in
which descent and property rights are traced through the ancient societies
female line. Some support for his theory can be found in
10
(C) explain the burgeoning interest among
evidence such as that drawn from Herodotus, the Greek historians in determining the actual status of
―historian‖ of the fifth century B. C. Nonetheless, this women in various societies
assumption that the first recorders of ancient myths have
(D) analyze the nature of Amazonian society
preserved facts is problematic. Ancient Greek and uncover similarities between it and the
descriptions of those societies were meant not so much to Greek world
represent observed historical fact-real Amazonian
15
(E) criticize the value of ancient myths in
societies-but rather to offer ―moral lessons‖ on the determining the status of women in ancient
supposed outcome of women's rule in their own society. societies
The Amazons were often characterized, for example, as
the equivalents of giants and centaurs, enemies to be slain
20
10. Select the sentence in the passage that is presented
by Greek heroes; thus, their customs were presented not as evidence supporting the author's view of the
as those of a respectable society, but as the very antitheses ancient Greeks' descriptions of the Amazons.
of ordinary Greek practices.
(179 words)
11. The author's attitude toward Bachofen's treatise is
best described as one of
(A) qualified approval
(B) profound ambivalence
(C) studied neutrality
(D) pointed disagreement
(E) unmitigated hostility
16Visual recognition involves storing and retrieving
12. The author is primarily concerned with
memories. Neural activity, triggered by the eye, forms an (A) explaining how the brain receives images
image in the brain's memory system that constitutes an (B) synthesizing hypotheses of visual recognition
Line internal representation of the viewed object. When an
5
(C) examining the evidence supporting the serial-
object is encountered again, it is matched with its internal
recognition hypothesis
representation and thereby recognized. Controversy
(D) discussing visual recognition and some
surrounds the question of whether recognition is a parallel,
hypotheses proposed to explain it
one-step process or a serial, step-by-step one.
10
(E) reporting on recent experiments dealing with
Psychologists of the Gestalt school maintain that objects memory systems and their relationship to
are recognized as wholes in a parallel procedure: the neural activity
internal representation is matched with the retinal image in
a single operation. Other psychologists have proposed that For the following question, consider each of the
internal representation features are matched serially with choices separately and select all that apply
an object's features. Although some experiments show
15
that, as an object becomes familiar, its internal
13. According to the passage, Gestalt psychologists
representation becomes more holistic and the recognition
make which of the following suppositions about
process correspondingly more parallel, the weight of
visual recognition?
A
□ A retinal image is in exactly the same forms as its
internal representation.
B An object is recognized as a whole without any need
□
evidence seems to support the serial hypothesis, at least
for objects that are not notably simple and familiar.
(151 words)
for analysis into component parts.
C The matching of an object with its internal
□
representation occurs in only one step.
17[This page is intentionally left blank. ]
18Exercise 4
It is a popular misconception that nuclear fusion
1. It can be inferred from the passage that the
power is free of radioactivity; in fact, the deuterium- author believes which of the following about the
tritium reaction that nuclear scientists are currently current state of public awareness concerning
Line exploring with such zeal produces both alpha particles nuclear fusion power?
5 (A) The public has been deliberately misinformed
and neutrons. (The neutrons are used to produce tritium
from a lithium blanket surrounding the reactor.) about the advantages and disadvantages of
Another common misconception is that nuclear fusion nuclear fusion power.
power is a virtually unlimited source of energy because
10
(B) The public is unaware of the principal
of the enormous quantity of deuterium in the sea. advantage of nuclear fusion over nuclear
Actually, its limits are set by the amount of available fission as an energy source.
(C) The public's awareness of the scientific
lithium, which is about as plentiful as uranium in the
Earth's crust. Research should certainly continue on facts concerning nuclear fusion power is
controlled nuclear fusion, but no energy program somewhat distorted and incomplete.
should be premised on its existence until it has proven
15
practical.
(D) The public is not interested in increasing its
(122 words)
awareness of the advantages and
disadvantages of nuclear fusion power.
(E) The public is aware of the disadvantages of
nuclear fusion power but not of its
advantages.
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
2. The passage provides information that would
answer which of the following questions EXCEPT?
A How much incidental radiation is produced
□
in the deuterium tritium fusion reaction?
B What is likely to be the principal source of
□
deuterium for nuclear fusion power?
C Why are scientists exploring the deuterium-
□
tritium fusion reaction with such zeal?
19Roger Rosenblatt's book Black Fiction, in attempting
to apply literary rather than sociopolitical criteria to its
subject, successfully alters the approach taken by
Line most previous studies. As Rosenblatt notes, criticism
5
of Black writing has often served as a pretext for
expounding on Black history. Addison Gayle's recent
work, for example, judges the value of Black fiction by
overtly political standards, rating each work according to
the notions of Black identity which it propounds.
10
Although fiction assuredly springs from political
circumstances, its authors react to those circumstances in
ways other than ideological, and talking about novels and
stories primarily as instruments of ideology circumvents
much of the fictional enterprise. Rosenblatt's literary
15 analysis discloses affinities and connections among works
of Black fiction which solely political studies have
overlooked or ignored. Writing acceptable criticism of
Black fiction, however, presupposes giving satisfactory
answers to a number of questions. First of all, is there a
20 sufficient reason, other than the racial identity of the
authors, to group together works by Black authors?
Second, how does Black fiction make itself distinct from
other modern fiction with which it is largely
contemporaneous? Rosenblatt shows that Black fiction
25 constitutes a distinct body of writing that has an
identifiable, coherent literary tradition. Looking at novels
written by Blacks over the last eighty years, he discovers
recurring concerns and designs independent of
chronology. These structures are thematic, and they
30 spring, not surprisingly, from the central fact that the
Black characters in these novels exist in a predominantly
White culture, whether they try to conform to that culture
of rebel against it.
Black Fiction does leave some aesthetic questions
35 open. Rosenblatt's thematic analysis permits considerable
objectivity; he even explicitly states that it is not his
intention to judge the merit of the various works-yet his
reluctance seems misplaced, especially since an attempt
to appraise might have led to interesting results. For
40 instance, some of the novels appear to be structurally
diffuse. Is this a defect, or are the authors working out of,
or trying to forge, a different kind of aesthetic? In
addition, the style of some Black novels, like Jean
Toomer's Cane, verges on expressionism or surrealism;
45 does this technique provide a counterpoint to the
prevalent theme that portrays the fate against which Black
heroes are pitted, a theme usually conveyed by more
naturalistic modes of expression?
In spite of such omissions, what Rosenblatt does
50 include in his discussion makes for an astute and
worthwhile study. Black Fiction surveys a wide variety
of novels, bringing to our attention in the process some
fascinating and little-known works like James Weldon
Johnson's Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man. Its
55 argument is tightly constructed, and its forthright, lucid
style exemplifies levelheaded and penetrating criticism.
203. The author of the passage objects to criticism of
5. The author of the passage believes that Black
Black fiction like that by Addison Gayle Fiction would have been improved had
because it Rosenblatt
(A) emphasizes purely literary aspects of such
(A) evaluated more carefully the ideological
fiction
and historical aspects of Black fiction
(B) misinterprets the ideological content of
(B) attempted to be more objective in his
such fiction
approach to novels and stories by Black
(C) misunderstands the notions of Black
authors
identity contained in such fiction
(C) explored in greater detail the recurrent
(D) substitutes political for literary criteria in
thematic concerns of Black fiction
evaluating such fiction
throughout its history
(E) ignores the interplay between Black history
(D) established a basis for placing Black fiction
and Black identity displayed in such fiction
within its own unique literary tradition
(E) assessed the relative literary merit of the
4. The author of the passage is primarily concerned with
novels he analyzes thematically
(A) evaluating the soundness of a work of criticism
(B) comparing various critical approaches to a subject
6. The author of the passage refers to James
Weldon Johnson's Autobiography of an Ex-
(C) discussing the limitations of a particular
kind of criticism
Colored Man most probably in order to
(A) point out affinities between Rosenblatt's
(D) summarizing the major points made in a
work of criticism
method of thematic analysis and earlier
(E) explaining the theoretical background of a
criticism
certain kind of criticism
(B) clarify the point about expressionistic style
made earlier in the passage
(C) qualify the assessment of Rosenblatt's book
made in the first paragraph of the passage
(D) illustrate the affinities among Black novels
disclosed by Rosenblatt's literary analysis
(E) give a specific example of one of the
accomplishments of Rosenblatt's work
21The transfer of heat and water vapor from the ocean
For the following question, consider each of the
to the air above it depends on a disequilibrium at the
choices separately and select all that apply
interface of the water and the air. Within about a
Line millimeter of the water, air temperature is close to that of
5
7. According to the passage, wind over the ocean
the surface water, and the air is nearly saturated with
generally does which of the following?
water vapor. But the differences, however small, are
crucial, and the disequilibrium is maintained by air near A Causes relatively cool, dry air to come into proximity
□
the surface mixing with air higher up, which is typically with the ocean surface.
B
□ Maintains a steady rate of heat and moisture
transfer between the ocean and the air.
appreciably cooler and lower in water-vapor content.
10
The air is mixed by means of turbulence that depends
C Causes frequent changes in the temperature of
□
the water at the ocean's surface.
on the wind for its energy. As wind speed increases, so
does turbulence, and thus the rate of heat and moisture
transfer. Detailed understanding of this phenomenon
awaits further study.
(127 words)
8. The passage suggests that if on a certain day the
wind were to decrease until there was no wind at
all which of the following would occur?
(A) The air closest to the ocean surface would
become saturated with water vapor.
(B) The air closest to the ocean surface would be
warmer than the water.
(C) The amount of moisture in the air closest to
the ocean surface would decrease.
(D) The rate of heat and moisture transfer would
increase.
(E) The air closest to the ocean would be at the
same temperature as air higher up.
22―I want to criticize the social system, and to show it at
9. In the first paragraph of the passage, the author's
work, at its most intense.‖ Virginia Woolf's provocative attitude toward the literary critics mentioned can
statement about her intentions in writing Mrs. Dalloway best be described as
Line has regularly been ignored by the critics, since it (A) disparaging
5 highlights an aspect of her literary interests very different (B) ironic
from the traditional picture of the ―poetic‖ novelist (C) facetious
concerned with examining states of reverie and vision and (D) skeptical but resigned
with following the intricate pathways of individual (E) disappointed but hopeful
consciousness. But Virginia Woolf was a realistic as well
10
as a poetic novelist, a satirist and social critic as well as a
10. It can be inferred from the passage that the most
visionary: literary critics' cavalier dismissal of Woolf's probable reason Woolf realistically described the
social vision will not withstand scrutiny. social setting in the majority of her novels was
In her novels, Woolf is deeply engaged by the
15
that she
questions of how individuals are shaped (or deformed) by (A) was aware that contemporary literary critics
their social environments, how historical forces impinge considered the novel to be the most
on people's lives, how class, wealth, and gender help to realistic of literary genres
determine people's fates. Most of her novels are rooted in
(B) was interested in the effect of a person's
a realistically rendered social setting and in a precise social milieu on his or her character and
historical time. actions
(163 words)
(C) needed to be as attentive to detail as
possible in her novels in order to support
the arguments she advanced in them
(D) wanted to show that a painstaking fidelity
in the representation of reality did not in
any way hamper the artist
(E) wished to prevent critics from charging that
her novels were written in an ambiguous
and inexact style
11. In the context of the passage, ―poetic‖ is closest in
meaning to
A socioeconomic
○
B realistic
○
C political
○
D visionary
○
E literary
○
23Exercise 5
Many theories have been formulated to explain the
role of grazers such as zooplankton in controlling the
amount of planktonic algae (phytoplankton) in lakes.
Line The first theories of such grazer control were merely
5
based on observations of negative correlations
between algal and zooplankton numbers. A low num-
ber of algal cells in the presence of a high number of
grazers suggested, but did not prove, that the grazers
had removed most of the algae. The converse obser-
10 vation, of the absence of grazers in areas of high
phytoplankton concentration, led Hardy to propose
his principle of animal exclusion, which hypothe-
sized that phytoplankton produced a repellent that
excluded grazers from regions of high phytoplankton
15 concentration. This was the first suggestion of algal
defenses against grazing.
Perhaps the fact that many of these first studies
considered only algae of a size that could be collected
in a net (net phytoplankton), a practice that over-
20 looked the smaller phytoplankton (nannoplankton)
that we now know grazers are most likely to feed on,
led to a de-emphasis of the role of grazers in subse-
quent research. Increasingly, as in the individual
studies of Lund, Round, and Reynolds, researchers
25 began to stress the importance of environmental
factors such as temperature, light, and water move-
ments in controlling algal numbers. These environ-
mental factors were amenable to field monitoring and
to simulation in the laboratory. Grazing was believed
30 to have some effect on algal numbers, especially after
phytoplankton growth rates declined at the end of
bloom periods, but grazing was considered a minor
component of models that predicted algal population
dynamics.
35
The potential magnitude of grazing pressure on
freshwater phytoplankton has only recently been
determined empirically. Studies by Hargrave and
Geen estimated natural community grazing rates by
measuring feeding rates of individual zooplankton
40 species in the laboratory and then computing com-
munity grazing rates for field conditions using the
known population density of grazers. The high esti-
mates of grazing pressure postulated by these
45
50
55
60
researchers were not fully accepted, however, until the
grazing rates of zooplankton were determined directly
in the field, by means of new experimental techniques.
Using a specially prepared feeding chamber, Haney
was able to record zooplankton grazing rates in natural
field conditions. In the periods of peak zooplankton
abundance, that is, in the late spring and in the summer,
Haney recorded maximum daily community grazing
rates, for nutrient-poor lakes and bog lakes, respectively,
of 6.6 percent and 114 percent of daily phytoplankton
production. Cladocerans had higher grazing rates than
copepods, usually accounting for 80 percent of the
community grazing rate. These rates varied seasonally,
reaching the lowest point in the winter and early spring.
Haney's thorough research provides convincing field
evidence that grazers can exert significant pressure on
phytoplankton population.
(461 words)
1. It can be inferred from the passage that the ―first
theories‖ of grazer control mentioned in the first
paragraph would have been more convincing if
researchers had been able to
(A) observe high phytoplankton numbers under
natural lake conditions
(B) discover negative correlations between
algae and zooplankton numbers from their
field research
(C) understand the central importance of
environmental factors in controlling the
growth rates of phytoplankton
(D) make verifiable correlations of cause and
effect between zooplankton and
phytoplankton numbers
(E) invent laboratory techniques that would
have allowed them to bypass their field
research concerning grazer control
242. Which of the following, if true, would call into
question Hardy's principle of animal exclusion?
(A) Zooplankton are not the only organisms
that are affected by phytoplankton
repellents.
(B) Zooplankton exclusion is unrelated to
phytoplankton population density.
(C) Zooplankton population density is higher
during some parts of the year than during
others.
(D) Net phytoplankton are more likely to
exclude zooplankton than are
nannoplankton.
(E) Phytoplankton numbers can be strongly
affected by environmental factors. 4. It can be inferred from the passage that one way
in which many of the early researchers on grazer
control could have improved their data would
have been to
(A) emphasize the effects of temperature, rather
than of light, on phytoplankton
(B) disregard nannoplankton in their analysis of
phytoplankton numbers
(C) collect phytoplankton of all sizes before
analyzing the extent of phytoplankton
concentration
(D) recognize that phytoplankton other than net
phytoplankton could be collected in a net
(E) understand the crucial significance of net
phytoplankton in the diet of zooplankton
For the following question, consider each of the 5. According to the passage, Hargrave and Geen
did which of the following in their experiments?
(A) They compared the grazing rates of
individual zooplankton species in the
laboratory with the natural grazing rates
of these species.
(B) The hypothesized about the population
density of grazers in natural habitats by
using data concerning the population
density of grazers in the laboratory.
(C) They estimated the community grazing rates
of zooplankton in the laboratory by using
data concerning the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton.
(D) They estimated the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton by using
data concerning the known population
density of phytoplankton.
(E) They estimated the natural community
grazing rates of zooplankton by using
laboratory data concerning the grazing
rates of individual zooplankton species.
choices separately and select all that apply
3. The author would be likely to agree with
which of the following statements regarding
the pressure of grazers on phytoplankton
numbers?
A Grazing pressure can vary according to the
□
individual type of zooplankton.
B Grazing pressure can be lower in nutrient-poor lakes
□
than in bog lakes.
C Grazing tends to exert about the same
□
pressure as does temperature.
25The belief that art originates in intuitive rather than
6. The passage suggests that which of the following
rational faculties was worked out historically and would most likely have occurred if linear perspective
philosophically in the somewhat wearisome volumes of and anatomy had not come to influence artistic
Line Benedetto Croce, who is usually considered the originator
5
endeavor?
of a new aesthetic. Croce was, in fact, expressing a very
(A) The craftsmanship that shaped Gothic
old idea. Long before the Romantics stressed intuition architecture would have continued to
and self-expression, the frenzy of inspiration was dominate artists' outlooks.
regarded as fundamental to art, but philosophers had
(B) Some other technical elements would have
always assumed it must be controlled by law and by the
been adopted to discipline artistic inspiration.
10 intellectual power of putting things into harmonious order.
(C) Intellectual control over artistic inspiration
This general philosophic concept of art was supported by would not have influenced painting as it
technical necessities. It was necessary to master certain did architecture.
laws and to use intellect in order to build Gothic
15
(D) The role of intuitive inspiration would not
cathedrals, or set up the stained glass windows of have remained fundamental to theories of
Chartres. When this bracing element of craftsmanship artistic creation.
ceased to dominate artists' outlook, new technical
(E) The assumptions of aesthetic philosophers
elements had to be adopted to maintain the intellectual
before Croce would have been invalidated.
element in art. Such were linear perspective and anatomy.
(156 words)
7. Select the sentence in the passage that indicates a
traditional assumption of aesthetic philosophers.
8. The author mentions ―linear perspective and
anatomy‖ in the last sentence in order to do
which of the following ?
(A) Expand his argument to include painting as
well as architecture
(B) Indicate his disagreement with Croce's
theory of the origins of art
(C) Support his point that rational order of
some kind has often seemed to discipline
artistic inspiration
(D) Explain the rational elements in Gothic
painting that corresponded to craftsmanship
in Gothic architecture
(E) Show the increasing sophistication of artists
after the Gothic period
26Nahuatl, like Greek and German, is a language that
9. According to the passage, some abstract
allows the formation of extensive compounds. By the
universal ideas can be expressed in Nahuatl by
combination of radicals or semantic elements, single
(A) taking away from a word any reference to
Line compound words can express complex conceptual
5
particular instances
relations, often of an abstract universal character.
(B) removing a word from its associations with
The tlamatinime (―those who know‖) were able to
other words
use this rich stock of abstract terms to express the (C) giving a word a new and opposite meaning
nuances of their thought. They also availed themselves (D) putting various meaningful elements
of other forms of expression with metaphorical meaning,
10
together in one word
some probably original, some derived from Toltec
(E) turning each word of a phrase into a poetic
coinages. Of these forms the most characteristic in
metaphor
Nahuatl is the juxtaposition of two words that, because
15
they are synonyms, associated terms, or even contraries, For the following question, consider each of the
complement each other to evoke one single idea. Used as choices separately and select all that apply
metaphor, the juxtaposed terms connote specific or
essential traits of the being they refer to, introducing a
10. It can be inferred solely from the information
mode of poetry as an almost habitual form of expression.
in the passage EXCEPT that
(140 words)
A all abstract universal ideas are ideas of
□
complex relations
B some record or evidence of the thought of
□
the tlamatinime exists
C metaphors are always used in Nahuatl to
□
express abstract conceptual relationships
27Since science tries to deal with reality, even the most
11. According to the passage, scientists are skeptical
precise sciences normally work with more or less
toward their equations because scientists
imperfectly understood approximations toward which
(A) work to explain real, rather than theoretical
Line scientists must maintain an appropriate skepticism. Thus,
5
or simplified, situations
for instance, it may come as a shock to mathematicians to
(B) know that well-defined problems are often
learn that the Schrodinger equation for the hydrogen atom
the most difficult to solve
is not a literally correct description of this atom, but only
(C) are unable to express their data in terms of
an approximation to a somewhat more correct equation
multiple variables
taking account of spin, magnetic dipole, and relativistic
10
(D) are unwilling to relax the axioms they have
effects; and that this corrected equation is itself only an
developed
imperfect approximation to an infinite set of quantum
(E) are unable to accept mathematical
field-theoretical equations. Physicists, looking at the
explanations of natural phenomena
original Schrodinger equation, learn to sense in it the
presence of many invisible terms in addition to the
15
12. The author implies that scientists develop a
differential terms visible, and this sense inspires an
healthy skepticism because they are aware that
entirely appropriate disregard for the purely technical
(A) mathematicians are better able to solve
features of the equation. This very healthy skepticism is
problems than are scientists
foreign to the mathematical approach. Mathematics must
(B) changes in axiomatic propositions will
deal with well-defined situations. Thus, mathematicians
20
inevitably undermine scientific arguments
depend on an intellectual effort outside of mathematics
(C) well-defined situations are necessary for the
for the crucial specification of the approximation that
mathematics is to take literally.
design of reliable experiments
(177 words)
(D) mathematical solutions can rarely be
applied to real problems
(E) some factors in most situations must remain
unknown
28Exercise 6
Some modern anthropologists hold that biological
evolution has shaped not only human morphology but
also human behavior. The role those anthropologists
Line ascribe to evolution is not of dictating the details of
5
human behavior but one of imposing constraints-
ways of feeling, thinking, and acting that ―come natu-
rally‖ in archetypal situations in any culture. Our
―frailties‖ –emotions and motives such as rage, fear,
greed, gluttony, joy, lust, love-may be a very mixed
10 assortment, but they share at least one immediate
quality: we are, as we say, ―in the grip‖ of them. And
thus they give us our sense of constraints.
Unhappily, some of those frailties-our need for
ever-increasing security among them-are presently
15 maladaptive. Yet beneath the overlay of cultural
detail, they, too, are said to be biological in direction,
and therefore as natural to us as are our appendixes.
We would need to comprehend thoroughly their
adaptive origins in order to understand how badly they
20 guide us now. And we might then begin to resist their
pressure.
1. Which of the following most probably provides
an appropriate analogy from human morphol-
ogy for the ―details‖ versus ―constraints‖
distinction made in the passage in relation to
human behavior?
(A) The ability of most people to see all the
colors of the visible spectrum as against
most people's inability to name any but
the primary colors
(B) The ability of even the least fortunate
people to show compassion as against
people's inability to mask their feelings
completely
(C) The ability of some people to dive to great
depths as against most people's inability
to swim long distances
(D) The psychological profile of those people
who are able to delay gratification as
against people's inability to control their
lives completely
(E) The greater lung capacity of mountain
peoples that helps them live in oxygen-poor
air as against people's inability to fly
without special apparatus
2. It can be inferred that in his discussion of
maladaptive frailties the author assumes that
(A) evolution does not favor the emergence of
adaptive characteristics over the emergence
of maladaptive ones
(B) any structure or behavior not positively
adaptive is regarded as transitory in
evolutionary theory
(C) maladaptive characteristics, once fixed,
make the emergence of other maladaptive
characteristics more likely
(D) the designation of a characteristic as being
maladaptive must always remain highly
tentative
(E) changes in the total human environment can
outpace evolutionary change
29The molecules of carbon dioxide in the Earth's
3. According to the passage, the greatest part of
atmosphere affect the heat balance of the Earth by
the solar energy that reaches the Earth is
acting as a one-way screen. Although these molecules
(A) concentrated in the infrared spectrum
Line allow radiation at visible wavelengths, where most of (B) concentrated at visible wavelengths
5 the energy of sunlight is concentrated, to pass (C) absorbed by carbon dioxide molecules
through, they absorb some of the longer-wavelength, (D) absorbed by atmospheric water vapor
infrared emissions radiated from the Earth's surface, (E) reflected back to space by snow and ice
radiation that would otherwise be transmitted back
10
into space. For the Earth to maintain a constant aver age For the following question, consider each of the
temperature, such emissions from the planet must choices separately and select all that apply
balance incoming solar radiation. If there were no car-bon
dioxide in the atmosphere, heat would escape from the
4. According to the passage, atmospheric carbon
Earth much more easily. The surface temperature would
dioxide performs which of the following functions
A absorbing radiation at visible wavelengths
□
B absorbing outgoing radiation from the Earth
□
C helping to retain heat near the Earth's surface
□
be so much lower that the oceans might be a solid mass
15
of ice.
(120 words)
30Initially the Vinaver theory that Malory's eight
For the following question, consider each of the
romances, once thought to be fundamentally unified.
choices separately and select all that apply
were in fact eight independent works produced both a
Line sense of relief and an unpleasant shock. Vinaver's
5
5. It can be inferred from the passage that the author
theory comfortably explained away the apparent believes which of the following about Malory's
contradictions of chronology and made each romance works?
independently satisfying. It was, however, disagreeable
A There are meaningful links between and
□
among the romances.
to find that what had been thought of as one book was
now eight books. Part of this response was the natural
10
B The subtleties of the romances are obscured
□
when they are taken as one work.
C Any contradictions in chronology among the
□
reaction to the disturbance of set ideas. Nevertheless,
even now, after lengthy consideration of the theory's
refined but legitimate observations, one cannot avoid
15
the conclusion that the eight romances are only one romances are less important than their over-
work. It is not quite a matter of disagreeing with the all unity.
theory of independence, but of rejecting its implications:
that the romances may be taken in any or no particular
6. The author of the passage concedes which of the
order, that they have no cumulative effect, and that they
following about the Vinaver theory?
are as separate as the works of a modern novelist.
(A) It gives a clearer understanding of the unity of
(154 words)
Malory's romances.
(B) It demonstrates the irrationality of considering
Malory's romances to be unified.
(C) It establishes acceptable links between Malory's
romances and modern novels.
(D) It unifies earlier and later theories concerning
the chronology of Malory's romances.
(E) It makes valid and subtle comments about
Malory's romances.
7. Select the sentence in the passage that suggests that, in
evaluating the Vinaver theory, some critics were
initially biased by previous interpretations of Malory's
work.
31The historian Frederick J. Turner wrote in the 1890's
that the agrarian discontent that had been developing
steadily in the United States since about 1870 had been
Line precipitated by the closing of the internal frontier--that is,
5
the depletion of available new land needed for further
expansion of the American farming system. Actually,
however, new lands were taken up for farming in the
United States throughout and beyond the nineteenth
century. The emphasis of the presumed disappearance of
10 the American frontier obscured the great importance of
changes in the conditions and consequences of
international trade that occurred during the second half of
the nineteenth century. Huge tracts of land were being
settled and farmed in Argentina, Australia, Canada, and in
15 the American West, and these areas were joined with one
another and with the countries of Europe into an
interdependent market system. Consequently, agrarian
depressions no longer were local or national in scope, and
they struck several nations whose internal frontiers had
20 not vanished or were not about to vanish. Between the
early 1870's and the 1890's, the mounting agrarian
discontent in America paralleled the almost uninterrupted
decline in the prices of American agricultural products on
foreign markets.
(198 words)
9. According to the author, changes in the
conditions of international trade resulted in an
(A) underestimation of the amount of new land
that was being famed in the United States
(B) underutilization of relatively small but rich
plots of land
(C) overexpansion of the world transportation
network for shipping agricultural
products
(D) extension of agrarian depressions beyond
national boundaries
(E) emphasis on the importance of market
forces in determining the prices of
agricultural products
10. The author implies that, after certain territories
and countries had been joined into an
interdependent market system in the
nineteenth century, agrarian depressions
within that system
(A) spread to several nations, excluding those in
which the internal frontier remained open
(B) manifested themselves in several nations,
including those in which new land
remained available for farming
(C) slowed down the pace of new technological
developments in international
communications and transportation
(D) affected the local and national prices of the
nonagricultural products of several nations
(E) encouraged several nations to sell more of
their agricultural products on foreign
markets
8. The author is primarily concerned with
(A) showing that a certain interpretation is
better supported by the evidence than is
an alternative explanation
(B) developing an alternative interpretation by
using sources of evidence that formerly
had been unavailable
(C) questioning the accuracy of the evidence
that most scholars have used to counter
the author's own interpretation
(D) reviewing the evidence that formerly had
been thought to obscure a valid
interpretation
(E) presenting evidence in support of a
controversial version of an earlier
interpretation.
11. The author's argument implies that, compared
to the yearly price changes that actually
occurred on foreign agricultural markets during
the 1880's, American farmers would have most
preferred yearly price changes that were
(A) much smaller and in the same direction
(B) much smaller but in the opposite direction
(C) slightly smaller and in the same direction
(D) similar in size but in the opposite direction
(E) slightly greater and in the same direction
32When the same parameters and quantitative theory
12. Which of the following best summarizes the
author's main point?
are used to analyze both termite colonies and troops
of rhesus macaques, we will have a unified science of
(A) Oversimplified comparisons of animal
sociobiology. I have been increasingly impressed with the
societies could diminish the likelihood of
functional similarities between insect and vertebrate developing a unified science of
societies and less so with the structural differences that sociobiology.
seem, at first glance, to constitute such an immense gulf
(B) Understanding the ways in which animals as
between them. Consider termites and macaques. Both different as termites and rhesus macaques
form cooperative groups that occupy territories. In both resemble each other requires train in
kinds of society there is a well-marked division of labor. both biology and sociology.
Members of both groups communicate to each other
(C) Most animals organize themselves into
hunger, alarm, hostility, caste status or rank, and societies that exhibit patterns of group
reproductive status. From the specialist's point of view, behavior similar to those of human
this comparison may at first seem facile-or worse. But it societies.
is out of such deliberate oversimplification that the
beginnings of a general theory are made.
(D) Animals as different as termites and rhesus
(134 words)
macaques follow certain similar and
predictable patterns of behavior.
(E) A study of the similarities between insect
and vertebrate societies could provide the
basis for a unified science of sociobiology.
13. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
suggests that There are significant structural
differences
33
between insect and vertebrate societies.Exercise 7
Hydrogeology is a science dealing with the properties, 1. It can be inferred that which of the following
distribution, and circulation of water on the surface of the is most likely to be the subject of study by a
land, in the soil and underlying rocks, and geohydrologist?
Line in the atmosphere. The term ―geohydrology‖ is
5 sometimes erroneously used as a synonym for
(A) Soft, porous rock being worn away by a
waterfall
―hydrogeology.‖ Geohydrology is concerned with
(B) Water depositing minerals on the banks of a
underground water. There are many formations that
gorge through which the water runs
contain water but are not part of the hydrologic cycle
10
(C) The trapping of water in a sealed
because of geologic changes that have isolated them underground rock cavern through the action
underground. These systems are properly termed of an earthquake
geohydrologic but not hydrogeologic. Only when a (D) Water becoming unfit to drink through the
system possesses natural or artificial boundaries that release of pollutants into it from a
associate the water within it with the hydrologic cycle manufacturing plant
may the entire system properly be termed hydrogeologic.
(E) The changing course of a river channel as
(107 words)
the action of the water wears away the rocks
past which the river flows
2. The author refers to ―many formations‖ primarily in
order to
(A) clarify a distinction
(B) introduce a subject
(C) draw an analogy
(D) emphasize a similarity
(E) resolve a conflict
34In the 1750's, when salons were firmly established
4. The author refers to differences in social back-
in France, some English women, who called ground between salonnieres and Bluestockings
themselves ―Bluestocking,‖ followed the example of in order to do which of the following?
Line the salonnieres (French salon hostesses) and formed
(A) Criticize the view that their choices of
5 their own salons. Most Bluestockings did not wish to activities were significantly influenced by
mirror the salonnieres; they simply desired to adapt a male salon members
proven formula to their own purpose-the elevation
(B) Discuss the reasons why literary salons in
of women's status through moral and intellectual
France were established before those in
training. Differences in social orientation and back-
10
15
England
ground can account perhaps for differences in the
(C) Question the importance of the
nature of French and English salons. The French Bluestockings in shaping public attitudes
salon incorporated aristocratic attitudes that exalted toward educated women
courtly pleasure and emphasized artistic accomplish- (D) Refute the argument that the French salons
ments. The English Bluestockings, originating from a had little influence over the direction the
more modest background, emphasized learning and English salons took
work over pleasure. Accustomed to the regimented life
(E) Explain the differences in atmosphere and
of court circles, salonnieres tended toward formality
style in their salons
in their salons. The English women, though somewhat
puritanical, were more casual in their approach.
For the following question, consider each of the
(139 words)
choices separately and select all that apply
3. According to the passage, a significant distinction
5. Which of the following statements is most
between the salonnieres and Bluestockings was in the compatible with the principles of the salonnieres
way each group regarded which of the following? as described in the passage?
(A) The value of acquiring knowledge
A Devotion to pleasure and art is justified in
□
itself.
B
□ Men should be excluded from groups of
(B) The role of pleasure in the activities of the
literary salon
(C) The desirability of a complete break with
women's rights supporters.
C
□ Women should aspire to be not only
educated but independent as well.
societal traditions
(D) The inclusion of women of different back-
grounds in the salons
(E) The attainment of full social and political
equality with men
35The use of heat pumps has been held back
6. If the author's assessment of the use of heat pumps is
largely by skepticism about advertisers' claims that correct, which of the following best expresses the
heat pumps can provide as many as two units of lesson that advertisers should learn from this case?
thermal energy for each unit of electrical energy (A) Do not make exaggerated claims about the
used, thus apparently contradicting the principle of
energy conservation.
products you are trying to promote.
(43 words)
(B) Focus your advertising campaign on vague
analogies and veiled implications instead of
on facts.
(C) Do not use facts in your advertising that will
strain the prospective client's ability to
believe.
(D) Do not assume in your advertising that the
prospective clients know even the most
elementary scientific principles.
(E) Concentrate your advertising firmly on financially
relevant issues such as price discounts and
efficiency of operation.
36All of Francoise Duparc's surviving paintings blend
7. According to the passage, modern viewers are not
portraiture and genre. Her subjects appear to be acquain- likely to value which of the following qualities in a
tances whom she has asked to pose; she has captured painting?
Line both their self-consciousness and the spontaneity of their (A) The technical elements of the painting
5 everyday activities, the depiction of which characterizes (B) The spontaneity of the painting
genre painting. But genre painting, especially when it (C) The moral lesson imparted by the painting
portrayed members of the humblest classes, was never (D) The degree to which the painting realistically
popular in eighteenth-century France. The Le Nain
depicts its subject
brothers and Georges de La Tour, who also chose such
10
(E) The degree to which the artist's personality is
themes, were largely ignored. Their present high standing
revealed in the painting
is due to a different, more democratic political climate
and to different aesthetic values: we no longer require
15
8. If the history of Duparc's artistic reputation were
artists to provide ideal images of humanity for our moral to follow that of the Le Nain brothers and Georges
edification but rather regard such idealization as a falsifi- de La Tour, present-day assessments of her work
cation of the truth. Duparc gives no improving message would be likely to contain which of the following?
and discreetly refrains from judging her subjects. In brief, (A) An evaluation that accords high status to her
her works neither elevate nor instruct. This restraint
work
largely explains her lack of popular success during her
(B) Acknowledgement of her technical expertise
lifetime, even if her talent did not go completely unrecog-
20
but dismissal of her subject matter as trivial
nized by her eighteenth-century French contemporaries.
(C) Agreement with assessments made in her own
time but acknowledgements of the excep-
tional quality of a few of her paintings
(D) Placement of her among the foremost artists of
her century
(E) A reclassification of her work as portraiture
rather than genre painting
9. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
indicates that aesthetic judgments can be influenced
by the political beliefs of those making the judgment.
37Flatfish, such as the flounder, are among the few
vertebrates that lack approximate bilateral symmetry
(symmetry in which structures to the left and right of the
Line body's midline are mirror images). Most striking among
5
the many asymmetries evident in an adult flatfish is eye
placement: before maturity one eye migrates, so that in
an adult flatfish both eyes are on the same side of the
head. While in most species with asymmetries virtually
all adults share the same asymmetry, members of the
10 starry flounder species can be either left-eyed (both eyes
on the left side of head) or right-eyed. In the waters
between the United States and Japan, the starry flounder
populations vary from about 50 percent left-eyed off the
United States West Coast, through about 70 percent
15 left-eyed halfway between the United States and Japan,
to nearly 100 percent left-eyed off the Japanese coast.
Biologists call this kind of gradual variation over a
certain geographic rang a ―cline‖ and interpret clines as
strong indications that the variation is adaptive, a
20 response to environmental differences. For the starry
flounder this interpretation implies that a geometric
difference (between fish that are mirror images of one
another) is adaptive, that left-eyedness in the Japanese
starry flounder has been selected for, which provokes a
25 perplexing questions: what is the selective advantage in
having both eyes on one side rather than on the other?
The ease with which a fish can reverse the effect of
the sidedness of its eye asymmetry simply by turning
around has caused biologists to study internal anatomy,
30 especially the optic nerves, for the answer. In all flatfish
the optic nerves cross, so that the right optic nerve is
joined to the brain's left side and vice versa. This
crossing introduces an asymmetry, as one optic nerve
must cross above or below the other. G. H. Parker
35 reasoned that if, for example, a flatfish's left eye
migrated when the right optic nerve was on top, there
would be a twisting of nerves, which might be
mechanically disadvantageous. For starry flounders, then,
the left-eyed variety would be selected against, since in a
40 starry flounder the left optic nerve is uppermost.
The problem with the above explanation is that the
Japanese starry flounder population is almost exclusively
left-eyed, and natural selection never promotes a purely
less advantageous variation. As other explanations
45 proved equally untenable, biologists concluded that there
is no important adaptive difference between left-
eyedness and right-eyedness, and that the two
characteristics are genetically associated with some
other adaptively significant characteristic. This
50 situation is one commonly encountered by
evolutionary biologists, who must often decide
whether a characteristic is adaptive or selectively
neutral. As for the left-eyed and right-eyed flatfish,
their difference, however striking, appears to be an
55 evolutionary red herring.
(456 words)
3810. According to the passage, starry flounder differ
from most other species of flatfish in that starry
flounder
(A) are not basically bilaterally symmetric
(B) do not become asymmetric until adulthood
(C) do not all share the same asymmetry
(D) have both eyes on the same side of the head
(E) tend to cluster in only certain geographic regions 12. According to the passage, a possible disadvantage
associated with eye migration in flatfish is that the
optic nerves can
(A) adhere to one another
(B) detach from the eyes
(C) cross
(D) stretch
(E) twist
For the following question, consider each of the 13. Which of the following best describes the
organization of the passage as a whole?
(A) A phenomenon is described and an
interpretation presented and rejected.
(B) A generalization is made and supporting
evidence is supplied and weighed.
(C) A contradiction is noted and a resolution is
suggested and then modified.
(D) A series of observations is presented
and explained in terms of the dominant
theory.
(E) A hypothesis is introduced and corroborated
in the light of new evidence.
choices separately and select all that apply
11. The author would be most likely to agree
with which of the following statements
about left-eyedness and right-eyedness in
the starry flounder?
A They are adaptive variations by the starry flounder
□
to environmental differences.
B They do not seem to give obvious selective
□
advantages to the starry flounder.
C They occur in different proportions in different
□
locations.
39Exercise 8
Heat pumps circulate a fluid refrigerant that cycles
1. According to the passage, the role of the flow
alternatively from its liquid phase to its vapor phase in a restriction in a heat pump is to
closed loop. The refrigerant, starting as a low- (A) measure accurately the flow rate of the
Line temperature, low-pressure vapor, enters a compressor
5
refrigerant mass at that point
driven by an electric motor. The refrigerant leaves the (B) compress and heat the refrigerant vapor
compressor as a hot, dense vapor and flows through a (C) bring about the evaporation and cooling of
heat exchanger called the condenser, which transfers
refrigerant
heat from the refrigerant to a body of air. Now the
(D) exchange heat between the refrigerant and the
refrigerant, as a high-pressure, cooled liquid, confronts
10
air at that point
a flow restriction which causes the pressure to drop. As
(E) reverse the direction of refrigerant flow when
the pressure falls, the refrigerant expands and partially
vaporizes, becoming chilled. It then passes
needed
through a
second heat exchanger, the evaporator, which transfers
heat from the air to the refrigerant, reducing the
15
temperature of this second body of air.
(126 words)
40Traditionally, the study of history has had fixed
2. Which of the following best states the main point of
boundaries and focal points-periods, countries,
the passage?
dramatic events, and great leaders. It also has had clear
(A) The approach of psychohistorians to historical
Line and firm notions of scholarly procedure: how one study is currently in vogue even though it
5 inquires into a historical problem, how one presents and lacks the rigor and verifiability of traditional
documents one's findings, what constitutes admissible historical method.
and adequate proof. The recent popular psychohistory,
(B) Traditional historians can benefit from studying
committed to Freudian psychoanalysis, takes a radically
the techniques and findings of psychohis-
different approach. This commitment precludes a
10
torians.
commitment to history as historians have always
(C) Areas of sociological study such as childhood
understood it. Psychohistory derives its ―facts‖ not from and work are of little interest to traditional
history, the detailed records of events and their historians.
(D) The psychological assessment of an individual's
consequences, but from psychoanalysis of the
15
individuals who made history, and deduces its theories behavior and attitudes is more informative
not from this or that instance in their lives, but from a than the details of his or her daily life.
view of human nature that transcends history. It denies (E) History is composed of unique and nonrepeat-
the basic criterion of historical evidence: that evidence ing events that must be individually analyzed
be publicly accessible to, and therefore assessable by, on the basis of publicly verifiable evidence.
all historians. Psychohistorians, convinced of the
20
3. The author of the passage puts the word ―deepest‖ in
absolute rightness of their own theories, are also
convinced that theirs is the ―deepest‖ explanation of any
quotation marks most probably in order to
event that other explanations fall short of the truth.
(A) question the usefulness of psychohistorians'
insights into traditional historical scholarship
(B) draw attention to a contradiction in the
psychohistorians' method
(C) emphasize the major difference between the
traditional historians' method and
that of psychohistorians
(D) disassociate her opinion of the psychohistorians'
claims from her opinion of their method
(E) signal her reservations about the accuracy
of psychohistorians' claims for their work
41Eight percent of the Earth's crust is aluminum, and
4. The author implies that a mineral must either be or
there are hundreds of aluminum-bearing minerals and
readily supply which of the following in order to be
vast quantities of the rocks that contain them. The best
classified as an aluminum ore?
Line aluminum ore is bauxite, defined as aggregates of alumi- (A) An aggregate
5 nous minerals, more or less impure, in which aluminum (B) Bauxite
is present as hydrated oxides. Bauxite is the richest of all (C) Alumina
those aluminous rocks that occur in large quantities, and (D) Corundum
it yields alumina, the intermediate product required for (E) An aluminum silicate
the production of aluminum. Alumina also occurs natu-
10
15
rally as the mineral corundum, but corundum is not For the following question, consider each of the
found in large deposits of high purity, and therefore it is choices separately and select all that apply
an impractical source for making aluminum. Most of 5. The passage supplies information for answering
the many abundant nonbauxite aluminous minerals are all of the following questions regarding aluminous
silicates, and, like all silicate minerals, they are minerals
refractory, resistant to analysis, and extremely difficult A Are aluminum-bearing nonbauxite minerals
□
to process. The aluminum silicates are therefore plentiful?
B
□ Do the aluminous minerals found in bauxite
contain hydrated oxides?
C Are aluminous hydrated oxides found in rocks?
□
generally unsuitable alternatives to bauxite because
considerably more energy is required to extract alumina
from them.
(153 words)
6. The author implies that corundum would be used to
produce aluminum if
(A) corundum could be found that is not contami-
nated by silicates
(B) the production of alumina could be eliminated
as an intermediate step in manufacturing alu-
minum
(C) many large deposits of very high quality corun-
dum were to be discovered
(D) new technologies were to make it possible to
convert corundum to a silicate
(E) manufacturers were to realize that the world's
supply of bauxite is not unlimited
42Tillie Olsen's fiction and essays have been widely
and rightly acknowledged, particularly by contemporary For the following question, consider each of the
feminists, as major contributions to American choices separately and select all that apply
Line literature. Yet few of Olsen's readers realize the extent
5
7. According to the author, which of the following
to which her vision and choice of subject are rooted in
is NOT true of the heritage mentioned in the passage?
an earlier literary heritage-the tradition of radical A It emphasizes gender as the determinate
□
political thought, mostly socialist and anarchist, of the influence on people's lives.
B
□ It includes political traditions that span three
decades of the twentieth century.
C It has been the most important influence on
□
1910's and 1920's, and the Old Left tradition of the
1930's. I do not mean that one can adequately explain
10
the eloquence of her work in terms of its political
origins, or that left-wing politics were the single most
Olsen's work.
important influence on it. My point is that its central
consciousness-its profound understanding of class and
8. Select the sentence in which the author denies possible
gender as shaping influences on people's lives-owes
15
interpretations of an earlier assertion.
much to that earlier literary heritage.
(126 words)
43Our visual perception depends on the reception of
9. Which of the following describes a situation
energy reflecting or radiating from that which we wish most analogous to the situation discussed in
to perceive. If our eyes could receive and measure the last sentence?
Line infinitely delicate sense-data, we could perceive the
5
(A) A mathematician can only solve problems
world with infinite precision. The natural limits of our the solution of which can be deduced
eyes have, of course, been extended by mechanical from known axioms.
instruments; telescopes and microscopes, for example,
(B) An animal can respond to no command
expand our capabilities greatly. There is, however, an
that is more complicated syntactically
ultimate limit beyond which no instrument can take us;
10
than any it has previously received.
this limit is imposed by our inability to receive sense-
(C) A viewer who has not learned, at least
data smaller than those conveyed by an individual intuitively, the conventions of painting,
quantum of energy. cannot understand perspective in a
(97 words)
drawing.
(D) A sensitized film will record no detail on a
scale that is smaller than the grain of the
film.
(E) A shadow cast on a screen by an opaque
object will have a sharp edge only if the
light source is small or very distant.
4410. The author uses Mack's ―categories‖ (lines 4-5)
Of Homer's two epic poems, the Odyssey has always
been more popular than the Iliad, perhaps because it
most probably in order to
includes more features of mythology that are accessible
(A) argue that the Iliad should replace the Odyssey
Line to readers. Its subject (to use Maynard Mack's
5
as the more popular poem
categories) is ―life-as-spectacle,‖ for readers, diverted
(B) indicate Mack's importance as a commentator
by its various incidents, observe its hero Odysseus
on the Iliad and the Odyssey
primarily from without; the tragic Iliad, however, presents
(C) suggest one way in which the Iliad and the
―life-as- experience‖: readers are asked to identify with
Odyssey can be distinguished
the mind of Achilles, whose motivations render him a
10
(D) point out some of the difficulties faced by
not particularly likable hero. In addition, the Iliad, more
readers of the Iliad and the Odyssey
than the Odyssey, suggests the complexity of the gods'
(E) demonstrate that the Iliad and the Odyssey
involvement in human actions, and to the extent that can best be distinguished by comparing their
modern readers find this complexity a needless respective heroes
complication, the Iliad is less satisfying than the
15
Odyssey, with its simpler  ̳scheme' of divine justice.
11. The passage is primarily concerned with
Finally, since the Iliad presents a historically verifiable (A) distinguishing arguments
action, Troy's siege, the poem raises historical (B) applying classifications
questions that are absent from the Odyssey’s blithely (C) initiating a debate
imaginative world. (D) resolving a dispute
(148 words)
(E) developing a contrast
12. It can be inferred from the passage that a reader of
the Iliad is likely to have trouble identifying with the
poem's hero for which of the following reasons?
(A) The hero is eventually revealed to be unheroic.
(B) The hero can be observed by the reader
only from without.
(C) The hero's psychology is not historically
verifiable.
(D) The hero's emotions often do not seem
appealing to the reader.
(E) The hero's emotions are not sufficiently
various to engage the reader's attention.
45[This page is intentionally left blank. ]
46Exercise 9
Jean Wagner's most enduring contribution to the
2. All of the following aspects of Afro-American
study of Afro-American poetry is his insistence that it be poetry are referred to in the passage as having been
analyzed in a religious, as well as secular, frame of influenced by Wesleyan hymnals EXCEPT
Line reference. The appropriateness of such an approach may (A) subject matter
5 seem self-evident for a tradition commencing with (B) word choice
spirituals and owing its early forms, rhythms, vocabulary, (C) rhythm
and evangelical fervor to Wesleyan hymnals. But before (D) structure
Wagner a secular outlook that analyzed Black poetry (E) tone
solely within the context of political and social protest
10
was dominant in the field.
3. It can be inferred from the passage that, before
It is Wagner who first demonstrated the essential
Wagner, most students of Afro-American poetry did
fusion of racial and religious feeling in Afro-American
which of the following?
poetry. The two, he argued, form a symbiotic union in
15
(A) Contributed appreciably to the transfer of
which religious feelings are often applied to racial issues political protest from Afro-American poetry to
and racial problems are often projected onto a direct political action.
metaphysical plane. Wagner found this most eloquently
(B) Ignored at least some of the historical roots of
illustrated in the Black spiritual, where the desire for
Afro-American poetry.
freedom in this world and the hope for salvation in the
(C) Analyzed fully the aspects of social protest
next are inextricably intertwined.
to be found in such traditional forms of Afro-
(159 words)
American poetry as the Black spiritual.
(D) Regarded as unimportant the development
of fervent emotionalism in a portion of Afro-
1. The primary purpose of the passage is to
American poetry.
(A) contrast the theories of Jean Wagner with
(E) Concentrated on the complex relations
those of other contemporary critics
between the technical elements in Afro-
(B) document the influence of Jean Wagner on the
American poetry and its political content.
development of Afro-American poetry
(C) explain the relevance of Jean Wagner's work to
the study of Afro-American religion
(D) indicate the importance of Jean Wagner's
analysis of Afro-American poetry
(E) present the contributions of Jean Wagner to
the study of Black spirituals
47In the early 1950's, historians who studied
preindustrial Europe (which we may define here as
Europe in the period from roughly 1300 to 1800) began,
Line for the first time in large numbers, to investigate more
5
of the preindustrial European population than the 2 or 3
percent who comprised the political and social elite: the
kings, generals, judges, nobles, bishops, and local
magnates who had hitherto usually filled history books.
One difficulty, however, was that few of the remaining
10
97 percent recorded their thoughts or had them
chronicled by contemporaries. Faced with this situation,
many historians based their investigations on the only
records that seemed to exist: birth, marriage, and death
records. As a result, much of the early work on the
15
nonelite was aridly statistical in nature; reducing the
vast majority of the population to a set of numbers was
hardly more enlightening than ignoring them altogether.
Historians still did not know what these people thought
or felt.
20
One way out of this dilemma was to turn to the
records of legal courts, for here the voices of the
nonelite can most often be heard, as witnesses, plaintiffs,
and defendants. These documents have acted as ―a point
of entry into the mental world of the poor.‖ Historians
25
such as Le Roy Ladurie have used the documents to
extract case histories, which have illuminated the
attitudes of different social groups (these attitudes
include, but are not confined to, attitudes toward crime
and the law) and have revealed how the authorities
30
administered justice. It has been societies that have had
a developed police system and practiced Roman law,
with its written depositions, whose court records have
yielded the most data to historians. In Anglo-Saxon
countries hardly any of these benefits obtain, but it has
35
still been possible to glean information from the study
of legal documents.
The extraction of case histories is not, however, the
only use to which court records may be put. Historians
who study preindustrial Europe have used the records to
40
establish a series of categories of crime and to quantify
indictments that were issued over a given number of
years. This use of the records does yield some
information about the nonelite, but this information
gives us little insight into the mental lives of the
45
nonelite. We also know that the number of indictments
in preindustrial Europe bears little relation to the
number of actual criminal acts, and we strongly suspect
that the relationship has varied widely over time. In
addition, aggregate population estimates are very
50 shaky, which makes it difficult for historians to
compare rates of crime per thousand in one decade of
the preindustrial period with rates in another decade.
Given these inadequacies, it is clear why the case
history use of court records is to be preferred.
(473 words)
484. The author suggests that, before the early 1950's,
6. It can be inferred from the passage that much of the
most historians who studied preindustrial Europe early work by historians on the European nonelite
did which of the following? of the preindustrial period might have been more
(A) Failed to make distinctions among members of the
illuminating if these historians had
preindustrial European political and social elite.
(A) used different methods of statistical analysis to
(B) Used investigatory methods that were almost
investigate the nonelite
exclusively statistical in nature.
(B) been more successful in identifying the attitudes
(C) Inaccurately estimated the influence of the
of civil authorities, especially those who
preindustrial European political and social elite.
administered justice, toward the nonelite
(D) Confined their work to a narrow range of the
(C) been able to draw on more accounts, written by
preindustrial European population.
contemporaries of the nonelite, that described
(E) Tended to rely heavily on birth, marriage, and
what this nonelite thought
death records.
(D) relied more heavily on the personal records left
by members of the European political and
5. According to the passage, the case histories
social elite who lived during the period in
extracted by historians have
question
(A) scarcely illuminated the attitudes of the political
(E) been more willing to base their research on the
and social elite
birth, marriage, and death records of the
(B) indicated the manner in which those in power
nonelite
apportioned justice
(C) focused almost entirely on the thoughts and feel- 7. It can be inferred from the passage that a historian
ings of different social groups toward crime and who wished to compare crime rates per thousand
the law
in a European city in one decade of the fifteenth
(D) been considered the first kind of historical
century with crime rates in another decade of that
writing that utilized the records of legal courts
century would probably be most aided by better
(E) been based for the most part on the trial testimony
information about which of the following?
of police and other legal authorities
(A) The causes of unrest in the city during the two
decades
(B) The aggregate number of indictments in the
city nearest to the city under investigation
during the two decades
(C) The number of people who lived in the city
during each of the decades under investigation
(D) The mental attitudes of criminals in the city,
including their feelings about authority, during
each of the decades under investigation
(E) The possibilities for a member of the city's
nonelite to become a member of the political
and social elite during the two decades
49Mycorrhizal fungi infect more plants than do any
8. Which of the following most accurately describes
other fungi and are necessary for many plants to thrive, the passage?
but they have escaped widespread investigation until (A) A description of a replicable experiment
Line recently for two reasons. First, the symbiotic association (B) A summary report of new findings
5 (C) A recommendation for abandoning a difficult
is so well-balanced that the roots of host plants show no
damage even when densely infected. Second, the fungi
area of research
cannot as yet be cultivated in the absence of a living (D) A refutation of an earlier hypothesis
root. Despite these difficulties, there has been important (E) A confirmation of earlier research
new work that suggests that this symbiotic association
10
15
can be harnessed to achieve more economical use of For the following question, consider each of the
costly superphosphate fertilizer and to permit better choices separately and select all that apply
exploitation of cheaper, less soluble rock phosphate. 9. It can be inferred from the passage that which of
Mycorrhizal benefits are not limited to improved the following has NOT been a factor influencing the
phosphate uptake in host plants. In legumes, extent to which research on mycorrhizal fungi has
Mycorrhizal inoculation has increased nitrogen fixation progressed?
beyond levels achieved by adding phosphate fertilizer A Lack of a method for identifying mycorrhizal
□
alone. Certain symbiotic associations also increase the fungi
B
□ Difficulties surrounding laboratory production
host plant's resistance to harmful root fungi.
of specimens for study
C Difficulties ensuing from the high cost and
□
scarcity of superphosphate fertilizers
50It is one of nature's great ironies that the availability
of nitrogen in the soil frequently sets an upper limit on
plant growth even though the plants' leaves are bathed
Line in a sea of nitrogen gas. The leguminous plants-among
5
them crop plants such as soybeans, peas, alfalfa, and
clover-have solved the nitrogen supply problem by
entering into a symbiotic relationship with the bacterial
genus Rhizobium.
10. Which of the following situations is most closely
analogous to the situation described by the author
as one of nature's great ironies?
(A) That of a farmer whose crops have failed
because the normal midseason rains did not
materialize and no preparations for
irrigation had been made
(B) That of a long-distance runner who loses a
marathon race because of a wrong turn that
cost him twenty seconds
(C) That of shipwrecked sailors at sea in a
lifeboat, with one flask of drinking water to
share among them
(D) That of a motorist who runs out of gas a mere
five miles from the nearest gas station
(E) That of travelers who want to reach their
destination as fast and as cheaply as possible,
but find that cost increases as travel speed
increases
51Throughout human history there have been many
stringent taboos concerning watching other people eat
or eating in the presence of others. There have been
Line attempts to explain these taboos in terms of
5
inappropriate social relationships either between those
who are involved and those who are not simultaneously
involved in the satisfaction of a bodily need, or
between those already satiated and those who appear
to be shamelessly gorging. Undoubtedly such elements
10 exist in the taboos, but there is an additional element
with a much more fundamental importance. In
prehistoric times, when food was so precious and the
on-lookers so hungry, not to offer half of the little food
one had was unthinkable, since every glance was a plea
15 for life.
(124 words)
11. If the argument in the passage is valid, taboos
against eating in the presence of others who are
not also eating would be LEAST likely in a society
that
(A) had always had a plentiful supply of food
(B) emphasized the need to share worldly goods
(C) had a nomadic rather than an agricultural
way of life
(D) emphasized the value of privacy
(E) discouraged overindulgence
12. The author's hypothesis concerning the origin of
taboos against watching other people eat emphasizes
the
(A) general palatability of food
(B) religious significance of food
(C) limited availability of food
(D) various sources of food
(E) nutritional value of food
13. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
suggests that past attempts to explain some taboos
concerning eating are incomplete.
52Exercise 10
Currently, the paramount problem in the field of
1. According to the passage, the major problem
biomaterials, the science of replacing diseased tissue with currently facing scientists in the field of bio-
human-made implants, is control over the interface, or materials is
Line surface, between implanted biomaterials and living
5
(A) assessing and regulating the bonding
tissues. The physical properties of most tissues can be between host tissue and implants
matched by careful selection of raw materials: metals, (B) controlling the transfer of potentially toxic
ceramics, or several varieties of polymer materials. Even materials across the interface of tissue
the requirement that biomaterials processed from these and implant
materials be nontoxic to host tissue can be met by
10
(C) discovering new materials from which to
techniques derived from studying the reactions of tissue
construct implant devices
cultures to biomaterials or from short-term implants. But
(D) deciding in what situations implants are
achieving necessary matches in physical properties across
needed
interfaces between living and non-living matter requires
15
(E) determining the importance of short-term
knowledge of which molecules control the bonding of implants to long-term stability of tissue
cells to each other-an area that we have not yet explored implant interfaces
thoroughly. Although recent research has allowed us to
stabilize the tissue-biomaterial interface by controlling
20
2. The passage suggests which of the following
either the chemical reactions or the microstructure of the about the recent research mentioned in the last
biomaterials, our fundamental understanding of how sentence ?
implant devices adhere to tissues remains woefully
incomplete.
(A) It has solved one set of problems but has
(159 words)
created another.
(B) It has concentrated on secondary concerns
but has ignored primary concerns.
(C) It has improved practical applications of
biomaterial technology without providing a
complete theoretical explanation of that
improvement.
(D) It has thoroughly investigated properties of
biomaterials but has paid little attention
to relevant characteristics of human tissue.
(E) It has provided considerable information on
short-term implant technology but little
on long-term implant technology.
53Islamic law is a particularly instructive example of
―sacred law.‖ Islamic law is a phenomenon so different
from all other forms of law-notwithstanding, of course,
Line a considerable and inevitable number of coincidences
5
with one or the other of them as far as subject matter and
positive enactment are concerned-that its study is
indispensable in order to appreciate adequately the full
range of possible legal phenomena. Even the two other
representatives of sacred law that are historically and
10 geographically nearest to it, Jewish law and Roman
Catholic canon law, are perceptibly different.
Both Jewish law and canon law are more uniform
than Islamic law. Though historically there is a
discernible break between Jewish law of the sovereign
15 state of ancient Israel and of the Diaspora (the dispersion
of Jewish people after the conquest of Israel), the spirit of
the legal matter in later parts of the Old Testament is very
close to that of the Talmud, one of the primary
codifications of Jewish law in the Diaspora. Islam, on the
20 other hand, represented a radical breakaway from the
Arab paganism that preceded it; Islamic law is the result
of an examination, from a religious angle, of legal subject
matter that was far from uniform, comprising as it did the
various components of the laws of pre-Islamic Arabia and
25 numerous legal elements taken over from the non-Arab
peoples of the conquered territories. All this was unified
by being subjected to the same kind of religious scrutiny,
the impact of which varied greatly, being almost
nonexistent in some fields, and in others originating novel
30 institutions. This central duality of legal subject matter
and religious norm is additional to the variety of legal,
ethical, and ritual rules that is typical of sacred law.
In its relation to the secular state, Islamic law
differed from both Jewish and canon law. Jewish law was
35 buttressed by the cohesion of the community, reinforced
by pressure from outside; its rules are the direct
expression of this feeling of cohesion, tending toward the
accommodation of dissent. Canon and Islamic law, on the
contrary, were dominated by the dualism of religion and
40 state, where the state was not, in contrast with Judaism,
an alien power but the political expression of the same
religion. But the conflict between state and religion took
different forms; in Christianity it appeared as the struggle
for political power on the part of a tightly organized
45 ecclesiastical hierarchy, and canon law was one of its
political weapons. Islamic law, on the other hand, was
never supported by an organized institution; consequently,
there never developed an overt trial of strength. There
merely existed discordance between application of the
50 sacred law and many of the regulations framed by
Islamic states; this antagonism varied according to place
and time.
54For the following question, consider each of the
5. Which of the following most accurately describes
choices separately and select all that apply
the organization of the passage?
3. The passage provides information to answer
(A) A universal principle is advanced and then
which of the following questions EXCEPT?
A
□ Does Islamic law depend on sources other
discussed in relation to a particular
historical phenomenon.
than Arab legal principles?
(B) A methodological innovation is suggested
B What secular practices of Islamic states
□
and then examples of its efficacy are
conflicted with Islamic law?
provided.
C Is Jewish law more uniform than canon
□
law?
(C) A traditional interpretation is questioned
and then modified to include new data.
(D) A general opinion is expressed and then
4. It can be inferred from the passage that the
supportive illustrations are advanced.
application of Islamic law in Islamic states has (E) A controversial viewpoint is presented and
(A) systematically been opposed by groups who then both supportive evidence and
believe it is contrary to their interests
contradictory evidence are cited.
(B) suffered irreparably from the lack of firm
institutional backing
6. The passage suggests that canon law differs
(C) frequently been at odds with the legal
from Islamic law in that only canon law
activity of government institutions
(A) contains prescriptions that nonsacred legal
(D) remained unaffected by the political forces
systems might regard as properly legal
operating alongside it
(B) concerns itself with the duties of a person in
(E) benefited from the fact that it never
regard to the community as a whole
experienced a direct confrontation with
(C) was affected by the tension of the conflict
the state
between religion and state
(D) developed in a political environment that
did not challenge its fundamental existence
(E) played a role in the direct confrontation
between institutions vying for power
55If a supernova (the explosion of a massive star) trig-
8. The passage implies that, according to the new
gered star formation from dense clouds of gas and dust, theory of spiral-galaxy structure, a spiral galaxy can
and if the most massive star to be formed from the cloud be created by supernovas when the supernovas are
evolved into a supernova and triggered a new round of (A) producing an underlying density wave
star formation, and so on, then a chain of star-forming (B) affected by a density wave of spiral form
regions would result. If many such chains were created (C) distributed in a spiral pattern
in a differentially rotating galaxy, the distribution of (D) located in the central plane of a galaxy
stars would resemble the observed distribute in a (E) located in a differentially rotating galaxy
spiral galaxy.
This line of reasoning underlies an exciting new
9. Which of the following, if true, would most
theory of spiral-galaxy structure. A computer simulation
discredit the new theory as described in the passage?
based on this theory has reproduced the appearance of
(A)The exact mechanism by which a star becomes
many spiral galaxies without assuming an underlying a supernova is not yet completely known
density wave, the hallmark of the most widely accepted and may even differ for different stars.
theory of the large-scale structure of spiral galaxies.
(B) Chains of star-forming regions like those
That theory maintains that a density wave of spiral postulated in the new theory have been
form sweeps through the central plane of a galaxy, observed in the vicinity of dense clouds of
compressing clouds of gas and dust, which collapse
into stars that form a spiral pattern.
gas and dust.
(160 words)
(C) The most massive stars formed from supernova
explosions are unlikely to evolve into super-
7. The primary purpose of the passage is to
novas.
(A) describe what results when a supernova triggers
(D) Computer simulations of supernovas provide a
the creation of chains of star-forming regions
poor picture of what occurs just before a
(B) propose a modification in the most widely
supernova explosion.
accepted theory of spiral-galaxy structure
(E) A density wave cannot compress clouds of gas
(C) compare and contrast the roles of clouds of gas
and dust to a density high enough to create a
and dust in two theories of spiral-galaxy
star.
structure
(D) describe a new theory of spiral-galaxy structure
and contrast it with the most widely accepted
theory
(E) describe a new theory of spiral-galaxy structure
and discuss a reason why it is inferior to the
most widely accepted theory
56The fact that Black people in the English colonies of
11. The passage suggests that the existence of a Roman
North America were never treated as the equals of conception of slavery in Spanish and Portuguese
White people has important ramifications. If from the colonies had the effect of
Line outset Black people were discriminated against, then
5
(A) extending rather than causing racial
legal slavery in the 1660's should be viewed as a
prejudice in these colonies
reflection and an extension of racial prejudice rather
(B) hastening the legalization of slavery in
than, as many historians including Oscar and Mary
these colonies
Handlin have argued, the cause of prejudice. In
(C) mitigating some of the conditions of slavery
addition, the existence of discrimination before the
10
for Black people in these colonies
advent of legal slavery offers a further explanation for
(D) delaying the introduction of slavery into the
the harsher treatment of Black slaves in North than in
English colonies
South America. Freyre and Tannenbaum have rightly
15
20
(E) bringing about an improvement in the
argued that the lack of certain traditions in North treatment of Black slaves in the English
America-such as a Roman conception of slavery and colonies
a Roman Catholic emphasis on equality-explains why
the treatment of Black slaves was more severe there 12. The author considers the explanation put forward
than in the Spanish and Portuguese colonies of South by Freyre and Tannenbaum for the treatment
America. But this cannot be the whole explanation accorded Black slaves in the English colonies of
since it is merely negative, based only on a lack of North America to be
something. A more compelling explanation is that the (A) ambitious but misguided
early and sometimes extreme racial discrimination in (B) valid but limited
the English colonies helped determine the particular (C) popular but suspect
nature of the slavery that followed. (D) anachronistic and controversial
(192 words)
(E) premature and illogical
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
10. According to the passage, the Handlins have NOT
argued which of the following about the relationship
between racial prejudice and the institution of legal
slavery in the English colonies of North America?
A Racial prejudice and the institution of slavery
□
arose simultaneously.
B The source of racial prejudice was the
□
institution of slavery.
C Although existing in a lesser form before the
□
1660's, racial prejudice increased sharply after
slavery was legalized.
57[This page is intentionally left blank. ]
58Exercise 11
Line
5
10
15
20
Many critics of Eamily Bronte's novel Wuthering
Heights see its second part as a counterpoint that
comments on, if it does not reverse, the first part, where
a ―romantic‖ reading receives more confirmation. Seeing
the two parts as a whole is encouraged by the novel's
sophisticated structure, revealed in its complex use of
narrators and time shifts. Granted that the presence of
these elements need not argue an authorial awareness of
novelistic construction comparable to that of Henry
James, their presence does encourage attempts to unify
the novel's heterogeneous parts. However, any
interpretation that seeks to unify all of the novel's
diverse elements is bound to be somewhat
unconvincing. This is not because such an
interpretation necessarily stiffens into a thesis (although
rigidity in any interpretation of this or of any novel is
always a danger), but because Wuthering Heights has
recalcitrant elements of undeniable power that,
ultimately, resist inclusion in an all-encompassing
interpretation. In this respect, Wuthering Heights shares
a feature of Hamlet.
(164 words)
2. Which of the following inferences about Henry
James's awareness of novelistic construction is
best supported by the passage?
(A) James, more than any other novelist, was
aware of the difficulties of novelistic
construction.
(B) James was very aware of the details of novel-
istic construction.
(C) James's awareness of novelistic construction
derived from his reading of Bronte.
(D) James's awareness of novelistic construction
has led most commentators to see unity in
his individual novels.
(E) James's awareness of novelistic construction
precluded him from violating the unity of
his novels.
3. The author of the passage would be most likely to
agree that an interpretation of a novel should
(A) not try to unite heterogeneous elements in the
novel
(B) not be inflexible in its treatment of the elements
in the novel
(C) not argue that the complex use of narrators or
of time shifts indicates a sophisticated structure
(D) concentrate on those recalcitrant elements of
the novel that are outside the novel's main
structure
(E) primarily consider those elements of novelistic
construction of which the author of the novel
was aware
1. According to the passage, which of the following is
a true statement about the first and second parts of
Wuthering Heights?
(A) The second part has received more attention
from critics.
(B) The second part has little relation to the first part.
(C) The second part annuls the force of the first part.
(D) The second part provides less substantiation
for a ―romantic‖ reading.
(E)The second part is better because it is more realistic.
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
4. The author of the passage suggests which of the
following about Hamlet?
A Hamlet has usually attracted critical interpretations
□
that tend to stiffen into theses.
B Hamlet has elements that are not amenable
□
to an all-encompassing critical interpretation.
C
□ Hamlet is less open to an all-encompassing
critical interpretation than is Wuthering
Heights.
59The deep sea typically has a sparse fauna dominated
by tiny worms and crustaceans, with an even sparser
distribution of larger animals. However, near
Line hydrothermal vents, areas of the ocean where warm water
5
emerges from subterranean sources, live remarkable
densities of huge clams, blind crabs, and fish.
Most deep-sea faunas rely for food on particulate
matter, ultimately derived from photosynthesis, falling
from above. The food supplies necessary to sustain the
10 large vent communities, however, must be many times
the ordinary fallout. The first reports describing vent
faunas proposed two possible sources of nutrition:
bacterial chemosynthesis, production of food by bacteria
using energy derived from chemical changes, and
15 advection, the drifting of food materials from surrounding
regions. Later, evidence in support of the idea of intense
local chemosynthesis was accumulated: hydrogen sulfide
was found in vent water; many vent-site bacteria were
found to be capable of chemosynthesis; and extremely
20 large concentrations of bacteria were found in samples of
vent water thought to be pure. This final observation
seemed decisive. If such astonishing concentrations of
bacteria were typical of vent outflow, then food within the
vent would dwarf any contribution from advection.
25 Hence, the widely quoted conclusion was reached that
bacterial chemosynthesis provides the foundation for
hydrothermal-vent food chains-an exciting prospect
because no other communities on Earth are independent
of photosynthesis.
30
There are, however, certain difficulties with this
interpretation. For example, some of the large sedentary
organisms associated with vents are also found at
ordinary deep-sea temperatures many meters from the
nearest hydrothermal sources. This suggests that bacterial
35 chemosynthesis is not a sufficient source of nutrition for
these creatures. Another difficulty is that similarly dense
populations of large deep-sea animals have been found in
the proximity of ―smokers‖ –vents where water emerges
at temperatures up to 350°C. No bacteria can survive such
40 heat, and no bacteria were found there. Unless smokers
are consistently located near more hospitable warm-water
vents, chemosynthesis can account for only a fraction of
the vent faunas. It is conceivable, however, that these
large, sedentary organisms do in fact feed on bacteria that
45 grow in warm-water vents, rise in the vent water, and then
rain in peripheral areas to nourish animals living some
distance from the warm-water vents.
Nonetheless, advection is a more likely alternative
food source. Research has demonstrated that advective
50 flow, which originates near the surface of the ocean
where suspended particulate matter accumulates,
transports some of that matter and water to the vents.
Estimates suggest that for every cubic meter of vent
discharge, 350 milligrams of particulate organic
55 material would be advected into the vent area. Thus, for
an average-sized vent, advection could provide more
than 30 kilograms of potential food per day. In addition,
it is likely that small live animals in the advected water
might be killed or stunned by thermal and/or chemical
60 shock, thereby contributing to the food supply of vents.
(479 words)
60For the following question, consider each of the
7. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
choices separately and select all that apply
implies that vents are colonized by some of the same
animal found in other areas of the ocean floor, which
5. The passage provides information for answering
might be a weakness for the bacterial chemosynthesis
which of the following questions EXCEPT?
model.
A What causes warm-water vents to form?
□
B What role does hydrogen sulfide play in
□
8. The author refers to ―smokers‖ in the third paragraph
chemosynthesis?
most probably in order to
C Do bacteria live in the vent water of smokers?
□
(A) show how thermal shock can provide food for
some vent faunas by stunning small animals
6. The information in the passage suggests that the
(B) prove that the habitat of most deep-sea animals is
majority of deep-sea faunas that live in nonvent
limited to warm-water vents
habitats have which of the following characteristics?
(C) explain how bacteria carry out chemosynthesis
(A) They do not normally feed on particles of food
(D) demonstrate how advection compensates for the
in the water.
lack of food sources on the seafloor
(B) They are smaller than many vent faunas.
(E) present evidence that bacterial chemosynthesis
(C) They are predators. may be an inadequate source of food for
(D) They derive nutrition from a chemosynthetic some vent faunas
food source.
(E) They congregate around a single main food
source.
61Ragtime is a musical form that synthesizes folk
9. Which of the following is most nearly analogous in
melodies and musical techniques into a brief quadrille- source and artistic character to a ragtime composition
like structure, designed to be played-exactly as written as described in the passage?
Line -on the piano. A strong analogy exists between
5
European composers like Ralph Vaughan Williams,
(A) Symphonic music derived from complex jazz
Edward Grieg, and Anton Dvorak who combined folk
motifs
tunes and their own original materials in larger
(B) An experimental novel based on well-known
compositions and the pioneer ragtime composers in the
cartoon characters
United States. Composers like Scott Joplin and James
10
(C) A dramatic production in which actors invent
Scott were in a sense collectors or musicologists,
scenes and improvise lines
collecting dance and folk music in Black communities
(D) A ballet whose disciplined choreography is
and consciously shaping it into brief suites or
based on folk-dance steps
anthologies called piano rags.
(E) A painting whose abstract shapes evoke
(100 words)
familiar objects in a natural landscape
62Geologists have long known that the Earth's mantle
10. According to the passage, it is believed that oceanic
is heterogeneous, but its spatial arrangement remains
islands are formed from
unresolved-is the mantle essentially layered or irregu- (A) the same material as mantle xenoliths
larly heterogeneous? The best evidence for the layered- (B) the same material as the midocean ridge system
mantle thesis is the well-established fact that volcanic (C) volcanic rocks from the upper mantle
rocks found on oceanic islands, islands believed to (D) incompatible elements percolating up from the
result from mantle plumes arising from the lower
lower mantle
mantle, are composed of material fundamentally
(E) mantle plumes arising from the lower mantle
different from that of the midocean ridge system,
whose source, most geologists contend, is the upper For the following question, consider each of the
mantle. choices separately and select all that apply
Some geologists, however, on the basis of obser-
11. It can be inferred from the passage that the sup-
vations concerning mantle xenoliths, argue that the porters of the ―layered-mantle‖ theory believe which
mantle is not layered, but that heterogeneity is created of the following?
by fluids rich in ―incompatible elements‖ (elements
A The volcanic rocks on oceanic islands are
□
composed of material derived from the
tending toward liquid rather than solid state)
percolating upward and transforming portions of the
lower part of the mantle.
B
□ The materials of which volcanic rocks on
oceanic islands and midocean ridges are
upper mantle irregularly, according to the vagaries of
the fluids' pathways. We believe, perhaps
unimaginatively, that this debate can be resolved composed are typical of the layers from
through further study, and that the underexplored which they are thought to originate.
C The differences in composition between
□
midocean ridge system is the key.
(157 words)
volcanic rocks on oceanic islands and the
midocean ridges are a result of different
concentrations of incompatible elements.
12. In the context of the passage, ―unimaginatively‖ is
closest in meaning to
(A) pedestrian
(B) controversial
(C) unrealistic
(D) novel
(E) paradoxical
63Scientists have sought evidence of long-term solar
13. It can be inferred from the passage that studies
periodicities by examining indirect climatological data, attempting to use tree-ring thickness to locate possible
such as fossil records of the thickness of ancient tree rings. links between solar periodicity and terrestrial climate
These studies, however, failed to link unequivocally are based on which of the following assumptions?
terrestrial climate and the solar-activity cycle, or even to
confirm the cycle's past existence.
(A) The solar-activity cycle existed in its present form
(45 words)
during the time period in which the tree rings grew.
(B) The biological mechanisms causing tree growth
are unaffected by short-term weather pat terns.
(C) Average tree-ring thickness varies from species
to species.
(D) Tree-ring thicknesses reflect changes in terrestrial
climate.
(E) Both terrestrial climate and the solar-activity
cycle randomly affect tree-ring thickness.
64Exercise 12
Traditional research has confronted only Mexican
2. The author most probably uses the phrase
and United States interpretations of Mexican-American ―charter minority‖ (lines 6-7) to reinforce the
culture. Now we must also examine the culture as we idea that Mexican Americans
Line Mexican Americans have experienced it, passing from
5
(A) are a native rather than an immigrant group
a sovereign people to compatriots with newly arriving
in the United States
settlers to, finally, a conquered people-a charter
(B) played an active political role when Texas first
minority on our own land.
became part of the United States
When the Spanish first came to Mexico, they inter-
10
(C) recognized very early in the nineteenth century
married with and absorbed the culture of the indigenous the need for official confirmation of their
Indians. This policy of colonization through acculturation rights of citizenship
was continued when Mexico acquired Texas in the early
(D) have been misunderstood by scholars trying
1800's and brought the indigenous Indians into Mexican
to interpret their culture
life and government. In the 1820's, United States citizens
(E) identify more closely with their Indian heritage
migrated to Texas, attracted by land suitable for cotton.
15
than with their Spanish heritage
As their numbers became more substantial, their policy of
acquiring land by subduing native populations began to
3. Which of the following statements most clearly
dominate. The two ideologies clashed repeatedly,
contradicts the information in this passage?
culminating in a military conflict that led to victory for
20
(A) In the early 1800's, the Spanish committed more
the United States. Thus, suddenly deprived of our parent resources to settling California than
culture, we had to evolve uniquely Mexican-American to developing Texas.
modes of thought and action in order to survive.
(B) While Texas was under Mexican control, the
(168 words)
population of Texas quadrupled, in spite of the
fact that Mexico discouraged immigration
1. The author's purpose in writing this passage is
from the United States.
primarily to
(C) By the time Mexico acquired Texas, many
(A) suggest the motives behind Mexican and United
Indians had already married people of
States intervention in Texas
Spanish heritage.
(B) document certain early objectives of Mexican-
(D) Many Mexicans living in Texas returned to
American society
Mexico after Texas was annexed by the
(C) provide a historical perspective for a new analysis
United States.
of Mexican-American culture
(E) Most Indians living in Texas resisted Spanish
(D) appeal to both Mexican and United States
acculturation and were either killed or
scholars to give greater consideration to
enslaved.
economic interpretations of history
(E) bring to light previously overlooked research on
Mexican Americans
65The determination of the sources of copper ore used in
the manufacture of copper and bronze artifacts of Bronze
Age civilizations would add greatly to our knowledge of
Line cultural contacts and trade in that era. Researchers have
5 analyzed artifacts and ores for their concentrations of elements,
but for a variety of reasons, these studies have generally failed
to provide evidence of the sources of the copper used in the
objects. Elemental composition can vary within the same
copper-ore lode, usually because of varying admixtures of
10 other elements, especially iron, lead, zinc, and arsenic. And
high concentrations of cobalt or zinc, noticed in some artifacts,
appear in a variety of copper-ore sources. Moreover, the
processing of ores introduced poorly controlled changes
in the concentrations of minor and trace elements in the
15 resulting metal. Some elements evaporate during smelting
and roasting; different temperatures and processes produce
different degrees of loss. Finally, flux, which is sometimes
added during smelting to remove waste material from the
ore, could add quantities of elements to the final product.
20
An elemental property that is unchanged through these
chemical processes is the isotopic composition of each
metallic element in the ore. Isotopic composition, the
percentages of the different isotopes of an element in a given
sample of the element, is therefore particularly suitable as an
25 indicator of the sources of the ore. Of course, for this purpose
it is necessary to find an element whose isotopic composition
is more or less constant throughout a given ore body, but
varies from one copper ore body to another or, at least, from
one geographic region to another.
30
The ideal choice, when isotopic composition is used to
investigate the source of copper ore, would seem to be copper
itself. It has been shown that small but measurable variations
occur naturally in the isotopic composition of copper.
However, the variations are large enough only in rare
35 ores; between samples of the common ore minerals of copper,
isotopic variations greater than the measurement error have
not been found. An alternative choice is lead, which occurs
in most copper and bronze artifacts of the Bronze Age in
amounts consistent with the lead being derived from the
40 copper ores and possibly from the fluxes. The isotopic
composition of lead often varies from one source of
common copper ore to another, with variations exceeding
the measurement error; and preliminary studies indicate
virtually uniform isotopic composition of the lead from a
45 single copper-ore source. While some of the lead found in
an artifact may have been introduced from flux or when
other metals were added to the copper ore, lead so added in
Bronze Age processing would usually have the same isotopic
50
66
composition as the lead in the copper ore. Lead isotope
studies may thus prove useful for interpreting the
archaeological record of the Bronze Age.
(473 words)4. The author first mentions the addition of flux during
smelting in the last sentence in the last paragraph in
order to
(A) give a reason for the failure of elemental
composition studies to determine ore sources
(B) illustrate differences between various Bronze
Age civilizations
(C) show the need for using high smelting
temperatures
(D) illustrate the uniformity of lead isotope
composition
(E) explain the success of copper isotope
composition analysis
6. Select the sentence in the passage that the author
rejects copper as the ―ideal choice‖.
7. It can be inferred from the passage that the use
of flux in processing copper ore can alter the
lead isotope composition of the resulting metal
EXCEPT when
(A) there is a smaller concentration of lead in
the flux than in the copper ore
(B) the concentration of lead in the flux is
equivalent to that of the lead in the ore
(C) some of the lead in the flux evaporates
during processing
(D) any lead in the flux has the same isotopic
composition as the lead in the ore
(E) other metals are added during processing
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
5. According to the passage, possible sources of the
lead found in a copper or bronze artifact include
which of the following?
A
□ The copper ore used to manufacture the artifact
B Flux added during processing of the copper ore
□
C Other metal added during processing of the
□
copper ore
67Echolocating bats emit sounds in patterns- 8. According to the passage, the information provided
characteristic of each species-that contain both to the bat by CF echoes differs from that provided
frequency-modulated (FM) and constant-frequency (CF) by FM echoes in which of the following ways?
Line signals. The broadband FM signals and the narrowband (A) Only CF echoes alert the bat to moving targets.
5 (B) Only CF echoes identify the range of widely
CF signals travel out to a target, reflect from it, and
return to the hunting bat. In this process of transmission
spaced targets.
(C) Only CF echoes report the target's presence to
and reflection, the sounds are changed, and the changes
in the echoes enable the bat to perceive features of the
the bat.
target.
10
(D) In some species, CF echoes enable the bat to
The FM signals report information about target
judge whether it is closing in on its target.
characteristics that modify the timing and the fine
(E) In some species, CF echoes enable the bat to
frequency structure, or spectrum, of echoes-for discriminate the size of its target and the
example, the target's size, shape, texture, surface direction in which the target is moving.
structure, and direction in space. Because of their narrow
15
bandwidth, CF signals portray only the target's presence
9. Which of the following best describes the organization
and, in the case of some bat species, its motion relative to
of the passage?
the bat's. Responding to changes in the CF echo's
(A) A fact is stated, a process is outlined, and
frequency, bats of some species correct in flight for the
specific details of the process are described.
direction and velocity of their moving prey.
(B) A fact is stated, and examples suggesting that
(150 words)
a distinction needs correction are considered.
(C) A fact is stated, a theory is presented to explain
that fact, and additional facts are introduced
to validate the theory.
(D) A fact is stated, and two theories are compared
in light of their explanations of this fact.
(E) A fact is stated, a process is described, and
examples of still another process are
illustrated in detail.
68By far the most outstanding of American talented
10. The author quotes Hilton Kramer most probably in
women sculptors during the twentieth century is Louise
order to illustrate which of the following?
Nevelson, who in the eyes of many critics is the most (A) The realism of Nevelson's work
original female artist alive today. One famous and (B) The unique qualities of Nevelson's style
influential critic, Hilton Kramer, said of her work, ―For (C) The extent of critical approval of Nevelson's
myself, I think Ms. Nevelson succeeds where the
work
painters often fail.‖
(D) A distinction between sculpture and painting
(55 words)
(E) A reason for the prominence of women
sculptors since the 1950's
69Until about five years ago, the very idea that peptide
hormones might be made anywhere in the brain besides
the hypothalamus was astounding. But laboratory after
Line laboratory found that antiserums to peptide hormones,
5
when injected into the brain, bind in places other than
the hypothalamus, indicating that either the hormones
or substances that cross-react with the antiserums are
present. The immunological method of detecting
peptide hormones by means of antiserums, however, is
10 imprecise. Cross-reactions are possible and this method
cannot determine whether the substances detected by
the antiserums really are the hormones, or merely close
relatives. Furthermore, this method cannot be used to
determine the location in the body where the detected
15 substances are actually produced. New techniques of
molecular biology, however, provide a way to answer
these questions. It is possible to make specific
complementary DNA's (cDNA's) that can serve as
molecular probes to seek out the messenger RNA's
20 (mRNA's) of the peptide hormones. The brain cells
containing these mRNA's can then be isolated and their
mRNA's decoded to determine just what their protein
products are and how closely the products resemble the
true peptide hormones.
(187 words)
11. Which of the following titles best summarizes the
passage?
(A) Is Molecular Biology the Key to Understanding
Intercellular Communication in the Brain?
(B) Molecular Biology: Can Researchers Exploit
Its Techniques to Synthesize Peptide Hormones?
(C) The Advantages and Disadvantages of the
Immunological Approach to Detecting
Peptide Hormones
(D) Peptide Hormones: How Scientists Are
Attempting to Solve Problems of Their
Detection
(E) Peptide Hormones: The Role Played by
Messenger RNA's in Their Detection
12. The passage suggests that a substance detected in the
brain by use of antiserums to peptide hormones may
(A) have been stored in the brain for a long period
of time
(B) play no role in the functioning of the brain
(C) have been produced in some part of the body
other than the brain
(D) have escaped detection by molecular methods
(E) play an important role in the functioning of the
hypothalamus
13. Which of the following is mentioned in the passage
as a drawback of the immunological method of
detecting peptide hormones?
(A) It cannot be used to detect the presence of
growth regulators in the brain.
(B) It cannot distinguish between the peptide
hormones and substances that are very
similar to them.
(C) It uses antiserums that are unable to cross
the blood-brain barrier.
(D) It involves a purification process that requires
extensive training in endocrinology.
(E) It involves injecting foreign substances directly
into the bloodstream.
70Exercise 13
pinnipeds, sea lions and walruses, are descended from 1. The author implies that which of the following was part
of the long-standing view concerning pinnipeds?
a terrestrial bearlike animal, whereas the remaining □
A Pinnipeds are all descended from a terrestrial
Biologists have long maintained that two groups of
bearlike animal.
Line group, seals, shares an ancestor with weasels. But the
5
□
B Pinnipeds share a common ancestor with turtles,
recent discovery of detailed similarities in the skeletal
whales, and dugongs
structure of the flippers in all three groups undermines
□
C Similarities among pinnipeds are due to their all
the attempt to explain away superficial resemblance as
having had to adapt to aquatic life.
due to convergent evolution-the independent develop-
ment of similarities between unrelated groups in
10
2. The author implies which of the following about the
response to similar environmental pressures. Flippers
fact that turtles, whales, and dugongs all have flippers?
may indeed be a necessary response to aquatic life,
turtles, whales, and dugongs also have them. But the
A It can be explained by the hypothesis that turtles,
○
common detailed design found among the pinnipeds
whales, and dugongs are very closely related.
probably indicates a common ancestor. Moreover,
15
B It can be explained by the idea of convergent
○
walruses and seals drive themselves through the water
evolution.
C
○ It suggests that turtles, whales, and dugongs
with thrusts of their hind flippers, but sea lions use
their front flippers. If anatomical similarity in the
evolved in separate parts of the world
flippers resulted from similar environmental pressures,
D It undermines the view that turtles, whales, and
○
dugongs are all descended from terrestrial ancestors.
E It is the primary difference between turtles, whales,
○
as posited by the convergent-evolution theory, one
20
would expect walruses and seals, but not seals and sea
lions, to have similar flippers.
(162 words)
and dugongs, on the one hand, and pinnipeds, on
the other.
3. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
shows that the implication of the common view is
contradicted by a new finding.
71Question 4 is based on the following reading passage.
4. Which of the following, if true, would cast most
According to astronomer S.A. Phinney, kicking a rock
doubt on Phinney's estimate of the probability of
hard enough to free it from Earth's gravity would require
Earth rocks hitting Mars?
a meteorite capable of making a crater more than 60 miles
A Rather than going in random directions, about
○
across. Moreover, even if Earth rocks were freed by
25 percent of all particles ejected from Earth
meteorite impact, Mars's orbit is much larger than Earth's,
go in the same direction into space.
B
○ Approximately 100 meteorites large enough to
make a noticeable crater hit the Earth each year.
C No rocks of Earth origin have been detected
○
so Phinney estimates that the probability of these rocks
hitting Mars is about one-tenth as great as that of Mars's
rocks hitting Earth. To demonstrate this estimate, Phinney
used a computer to calculate where 1,000 hypothetical
on Mars.
particles would go if ejected from Earth in random
D The velocity of rocks escaping from Earth's gravity is
○
lower than the velocity of meteorites hitting the Earth.
E No craters more than 60 miles across have
○
directions. He found that 17 of the 1,000 particles would
hit Mars.
been found on Mars.
72[This page is intentionally left blank. ]
73For each of Questions 5-8, select one answer choice
unless otherwise instructed.
Questions 5 to 8 are based on the following reading
passage.
Present-day philosophers usually envision their
35
discipline as an endeavor that has been, since antiquity, survival of philosophy in an age of modern science is
distinct from and superior to any particular intellectual hard to imagine. Metaphysics, philosophy's traditional
Line discipline such as theology or science. The basis for this
5
10
15
view, however, lies in a serious misinterpretation of the
core-considered as the most general description of how
40
rendered almost completely meaningless by the
The idea of an autonomous discipline called ―philosophy,‖ spectacular progress of physics. Kant, however, by
distinct from and sitting in judgment on such pursuits as focusing philosophy on the problem of knowledge,
theology and science turns out, on close examination, to managed to replace metaphysics with epistemology, and
be of quite recent origin. When, in the seventeenth
45
sciences‖ into the new notion of philosophy as a separate,
philosophy, they did not think of themselves, as modern foundational discipline: philosophy became ―primary‖ no
philosophers do, as proposing a new and better longer in the sense of ―highest‖ but in the sense of
philosophy, but rather as furthering ―the warfare between ―underlying‖.
science and theology.‖ They were fighting, albeit
philosophy and envisioned their work as contributing to
the growth, not of philosophy, but of research in
mathematics and physics. This link between philosophical
interests and scientific practice persisted until the
nineteenth century, when decline in ecclesiastical power
over scholarship and changes in the nature of science
provoked the final separation of philosophy from both.
The demarcation of philosophy from science was
facilitated by the development in the early nineteenth
century of a new notion, that philosophy's core interest
should be epistemology, the general explanation of what
it means to know something. Modern philosophers now
30
thus to transform the notion of philosophy as ―queen of
century, Descartes and Hobbes rejected medieval
science and to liberate intellectual life from ecclesiastical
25
the heavens and the earth are put together-had been
past, a projection of modern concerns onto past events.
discreetly, to open the intellectual world to the new
20
nineteenth century. Without the idea of epistemology, the
trace that notion back at least to Descartes and Spinoza,
but it was not explicitly articulated until the late
eighteenth century, by Kant, and did not become built into
the structure of academic institutions and the standard
self-descriptions of philosophy professors until the late
745. Which of the following best expresses the author's
7. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
main point?
characterizes Descartes' support for the new science of
A Philosophy's overriding interest in basic human
○
the seventeenth century.
questions is a legacy primarily of the work of Kant.
B Philosophy was deeply involved in the seventeenth-
○ For the following question, consider each of the
century warfare between science and religion.
C
○ The set of problems of primary importance to choices separately and select all that apply
philosophers has remained relatively constant since
8. With which of the following statements concerning the
antiquity.
D The status of philosophy as an independent
○
writing of history would the author of the passage be
most likely to agree?
intellectual pursuit is a relatively recent development.
E The role of philosophy in guiding intellectual
○
speculation has gradually been usurped by science.
A History should not be distorted by attributing
□
present-day consciousness to historical figures.
B History should be concerned with describing those
□
For the following question, consider each of the aspects of the past that differ most from those of the
choices separately and select all that apply present.
C History should not emphasize the role played by
□
6. The author of the passage implies which of the
ideas over the role played by individuals.
following in discussing the development of philosophy
during the nineteenth century EXCEPT?
A Nineteenth-century philosophy took science as its
□
model for understanding the bases of knowledge.
B Nineteenth-century philosophers carried out a
□
program of investigation explicitly laid out by
Descartes and Spinoza.
C Kant had an overwhelming impact on the direction of
□
nineteenth-century philosophy.
75Question 9 is based on the following reading passage.
9.Which of the following most closely parallels the
Although recent years have seen substantial reductions
situation described in the first sentence of the
in noxious pollutants from individual motor vehicles,
passage?
the number of such vehicles has been steadily
increasing. Consequently, more than 100 cities in the
A Although a town reduces its public services in
○
United States still have levels of carbon monoxide,
order to avoid a tax increase, the town's tax
particulate matter, and ozone (generated by
rate exceeds that of other towns in the
photochemical, reactions with hydrocarbons from vehicle
surrounding area.
B Although a state passes strict laws to limit the
○
exhaust) that exceed legally established limits.
type of toxic material that can be disposed of
in public landfills, illegal dumping continues
to increase.
C Although a town's citizens reduce their individual
○
use of water, the town's water supplies
continue to dwindle because of a steady
increase in the total population of the town.
D
○ Although a country attempts to increase the
sale of domestic goods by adding a tax to the
price of imported goods, the sale of imported
goods within the country continues to
increase.
E Although a country reduces the speed limit on
○
its national highways, the number of fatalities
caused by automobile accidents continues to
increase.
76Questions 10 to 12 are based on the following reading
passage
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
Hank Morgan, the hero of Mark Twain's A Connecticut
11. It can be inferred from the passage that Mark Twain
Yankee in King Arthur's Court, is a nineteenth-century
would most probably have believed in which of the
master mechanic who mysteriously awakening in
following statements about societal change?
A
□ Technological advancements are limited in their
Line sixth-century Britain, launches what he hopes will be a
5
peaceful revolution to transform Arthurian Britain into an
ability to change society and will likely bring
industrialized modern democracy. The novel, written as a
liabilities along with any potential benefits.
B The belief in the unmitigated benefits of societal
□
spoof of Thomas Malory's Morte d'Arthur, a popular
collection of fifteenth-century legends about change is antithetical to the American
sixth-century Britain, has been made into three upbeat doctrine of progress.
C Technological advances and peaceful revolutions,
□
movies and two musical comedies. None of these
10
translations to screen and stage, however, dramatize the although sometimes accompanied by
anarchy at the conclusion of A Connecticut Yankee, which unintended violence and resistance to societal
ends with the violent overthrow of Morgan's change, eventually lead to a more progressive order.
three-year-old progressive order and his return to the
nineteenth century, where he apparently commits suicide
15
12.The author uses the examples of "three upbeat
after being labeled a lunatic for his incoherent babblings movies and two musical comedies"(lines 9-10)
about drawbridges and battlements. The American public, primarily in order to demonstrate that
A well-written novels like A Connecticut Yankee in
○
King Arthur's Court, regardless of their tone or theme,
although enjoying Twain's humor, evidently rejected his
cynicism about technological advancement and change
through peaceful revolution as antithetical to the United
20
can be translated to the stage and screen.
B the American public has traditionally been
○
States doctrine of progress.
more interested in watching plays and movies
10.According to the passage, which of the following is a
than in reading novels like A Connecticut
true statement about the reception of A Connecticut
Yankee in King Arthur's Court
C
○ Twain's overall message in A Connecticut
Yankee in King Arthur's Court by the American public?
A The public had too strong a belief in the doctrine of
○
progress to accept the cynicism demonstrated at the
Yankee in King Arthur's Court is one that
had a profound impact on the American public.
D Twain's A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's
○
conclusion of Twain's novel.
B Twain's novel received little public recognition until
○
the work was adapted for motion pictures and plays.
C Although the public enjoyed Twain's humor, his use
○
Court has been a more popular version of the
Arthurian legends than has Malory's Morte d'Arthur
E A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court
○
of both sixth-century and nineteenth-century has been accepted as an enjoyable and humorous tale
characters confused many people. in versions that have omitted the anarchy at the
D The public has continued to enjoy Twain's story, but
○
novel's conclusion
the last part of the novel seems too violent to
American minds.
E
○ Because of the cynicism at the end of the book, the
public rejected Twain's work in favor of the work of
Thomas Malory.
77Exercise 14
For each of Questions 1-3, select one answer choice
unless otherwise instructed.
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
Questions 1 to 3 are based on the following reading
passage.
1.
It can be inferred that the author of the passage
would describe Brown Girl, Brownstones as being
Paule Marshall's Brown Girl, Brownstones (1959) was
A highly influenced by novels written in the early
□
a landmark in the depiction of female characters in Black
twentieth century
American literature. Marshall avoided the oppressed and
B important in the late 1950's but dated today
□
C an important influence on novels written in
□
Line tragic heroine in conflict with White society that had been
5
typical of the protest novels of early twentieth century.
the1970's
Like her immediate predecessors, Zora Neale Hurston
and Gwendolyn Brooks, she focused her novel on an
2. According to the passage, Hurston, Brooks, and
ordinary Black woman's search for identity within the
Marshall are alike in that they
A did not examine the effects of White culture on
○
context of a Black community. But Marshall extended the
10
analysis of Black female characters begun by Hurston and
their characters' lives
Brooks by depicting her heroine's development in terms
B were heavily influenced by the protest novels of
○
of the relationship between her Barbadian American
the early twentieth century
parents, and by exploring how male and female roles
C used Black communities as the settings for their
○
were defined by their immigrant culture, which in turn
15
novels.
D
○ wrote primarily about the difficulties their char-
was influenced by the materialism of White America. By
placing characters within a wider cultural context,
acters encountered in White culture
E
○ wrote exclusively about female characters and
the experiences of women
Marshall attacked racial and sexual stereotypes and paved
the way for explorations of race, class, and gender in the
novels of the 1970's.
3. The author's description of the way in which
Marshall depicts her heroine's development is most
probably intended to
A continue the discussion of similarities in the
○
works of Brooks, Hurston, and Marshall
B
○ describe the specific racial and sexual stereo-
types that Marshall attacked
C
○ contrast the characters in Marshall's novels
with those in later works
D show how Marshall extends the portrayal of
○
character initiated by her predecessors
E compare themes in Marshall's early work with
○
themes in her later novels
78Question 4 is based on the following reading passage.
Line
5
Calculations of the density of alloys based on 4. The author's speculation about the appropriateness
Bernal-type models of the alloy's metal component of models using spheres of two sizes for binary
agreed fairly well with the experimentally determined alloys would be strongly supported if models using
values from measurements on alloys consisting of a spheres of two sizes yielded
noble metal together with a metalloid, such as alloys of
palladium and silicon, or alloys consisting of iron,
A values for density identical to values yielded by
○
one-sphere models using the smaller spheres
phosphorus, and carbon, although small discrepancies
remained. One difference between real alloys and the
only
hard spheres used in Bernal models is that the
10
B values for density agreeing nearly perfectly with
○
experimentally determined values
C values for density agreeing nearly perfectly with
○
components of an alloy have different sizes, so that
models based on two sizes of spheres are more
appropriate for a binary alloy, for example. The smaller values yielded by models using spheres of
metalloid atoms of the alloy might fit into holes in the three sizes
dense, random-packed structure of the larger metal
D significantly different values for density depending
○
atoms.
on the size ratio between the two kinds of spheres
used
E
○ the same values for density as the values for
appropriately chosen models that use only
medium-sized spheres
79Questions 5 and 6 are based on the following reading For the following question, consider each of the
passage. choices separately and select all that apply
One of the principal themes of Walzer's critique of liberal 5.The passage provides sufficient information to
capitalism is that it is insufficiently egalitarian. Walzer's
answer which of the following questions EXCEPT?
case against the economic inequality generated by
A What weight in relation to other qualities
□
Line capitalism and in favor of "a radical redistribution of
5
wealth" is presented in a widely cited essay entitled "In should a quality like sensitivity have,
Defense of Equality." The most striking feature of according to Walzer, in determining the
Walzer's critique is that, far from rejecting the principle of proper distribution of goods?
B Which quality does Walzer deem too highly
□
valued under liberal capitalism?
C Which are the social goods that are, according
□
reward according to merit, Walzer insists on its validity.
People who excel should receive the superior
10
benefits appropriate to their excellence. But people
exhibit a great variety of qualities-"intelligence, to Walzer, outside the reach of the power of
physical strength, agility and grace, artistic creativity, money?
mechanical skill, leadership, endurance, memory,
psychological insight, the capacity for hard
15
6. The author implies that Walzer's interpretation of
work-even moral strength, sensitivity, the ability to the principle of reward according to merit is
express compassion."Each deserves its proper distinctive for its
recompense, and hence a proper distribution of material
A insistence on maximizing everyone's rewards
○
B emphasis on equality
○
C proven validity
○
goods should reflect human differences as measured on
all these different scales. Yet, under capitalism, the ability
20
to make money ("the green thumb of bourgeois society")
D broad conception of what constitutes merit
○
E broad conception of what constitutes a reward
○
enables its possessor to acquire almost "every other sort
of social good," such as the respect and esteem of others.
80Questions 7 to 9 are based on the following reading
passage.
7. The author's main point in the passage is that
national character
National character is not formally considered by
A
○
social scientists in discussing economic and social
and other social scientists.
development today. They believe that people differ and
B
○
Line that these differences should be taken into account
5
is of greater interest to social scientists today
than it has been in the past.
somehow, but they have as yet discovered no way to
include such variables in their formal models of economic
C
○ is still too difficult to describe with the precision
required by many social scientists.
D
○ has become increasingly irrelevant because of
and social development. The difficulty lies in the
nature of the data that supposedly define different
the complexity of modern lift.
national characters. Anthropologists and others are on
10
is too elusive to merit attention by anthropologists
E
○
much firmer ground when they attempt to describe the
cultural norms for a small homogeneous tribe or village
can be described more accurately by anthropologists
than by other social scientists.
than when they undertake the formidable task of discovering
15
the norms that exist in a complex modern For the following question, consider each of the
nation-state composed of many disparate groups. The choices separately and select all that apply
situation is further complicated by the nature of judgments
8. It can be inferred from the passage that the social
about character; since such judgments are overly
scientists mentioned in the first two sentences would
dependent on impressions and since, furthermore,
agree with which of the following statements?
impressions are usually stated in qualitative terms, it is
impossible to make a reliable comparison between the
A It is extremely difficult to create models that account
□
national characters of two countries.
for both economic and social development
B Models of economic and social development would
□
be improved by the inclusion of adequate
descriptions of national character.
C it is important to supplement formal models of
□
economic and social development with qualitative
impressions of national character.
9. Which of the following best describes the organization
of the passage?
A A problem is presented and reasons for its existence
○
are supplied.
B A controversial view is presented and evidence
○
for its validity is supplied.
C A hypothesis is presented and possible means
○
of verifying it are suggested.
D
○ A recent development is described and then
analyzed.
E A dispute is summarized and one side defended.
○
81Questions 10 and 11 are based on the following
reading passage.
10. The passage as a whole is primarily concerned with
It is now established that the Milky Way is far more
extended and of much greater mass than was hitherto
thought. However, all that is visible of the constituents of (A) analyzing a current debate
the Milky Way's corona (outer edge), where much of the (B) criticizing a well-established theory
galaxy's mass must be located, is a tiny fraction of the (C) showing how new facts support a previously
dismissed hypothesis
corona's mass. Thus, most of the Milky Way's outlying
(D) stating a conclusion and adducing evidence that
matter must be dark.
may justify it
Why? Three facts are salient. First, dwarf galaxies
(E) contrasting two types of phenomena and
and globular clusters, into which most of the stars of the
showing how they are related
Milky Way's corona are probably bound, consist mainly
of old stars. Second, old stars are not highly luminous.
11. Select the sentence that the author implicitly indicates
Third, no one has detected in the corona the clouds of
gaseous matter such as hydrogen and carbon monoxide what astronomers believed about the Milky way until
that are characteristic of the bright parts of a galaxy. fairly recently.
82Question 12 is based on the following reading passage.
In electrides, the anions (negative ions) are
12. It can be inferred from the passage that an electride
completely replaced by electrons, which are trapped in behaves most like a normal ionic crystal when the
naturally formed cavities within a framework of regularly electride has which of the following features?
stacked cations (positive ions). Unlike other types of
anions, anionic electrons do not behave as if they were (A) The anionic cavities are widely separated.
simple charged spheres. The properties of an electride (B) All of the trapped electrons are able to delocalize.
depend largely on the distance between the cavities that (C) The trapped electrons are liberated by
hold trapped electrons. When the trapped electrons are far
impinging photons.
apart, they do not interact strongly, and so behave (D) The ions are tightly packed together.
somewhat like an array of isolated negative charges. (E) Most of the cations have lost their electrical
When they are closer together, they begin to display
charge.
properties associated with large ensembles of identical
particles. When they are still closer, the ensemble
properties dominate and the electrons "delocalize".
83Exercise 15
Questions 1 to 3 are based on the following reading
1. Select the sentence that is used as evidence that
passage.
workers worker bees are capable of thwarting each
other's attempts to reproduce.
Typically the queen honeybee is mother to all the bees
in a hive; after mating with several male drones from
2. The inner workings in a honeybee hive that regulate
other colonies, she lays fertilized eggs that develop into
reproduction, as they are described in the passage,
Line all-female worker bees and lays unfertilized eggs that are most similar to which of the following
5 become all-male drones. According to natural selection types of human societies?
theory, a worker would enhance her fitness --or ability to (A) A totalitarian society in which citizens'
propagate her genes-by hatching her own eggs in addition
"policing" of each other's actions helps to
to or in place of the queen's. But a typical worker's fitness
maintain the status quo.
would be diminished if other workers' sons, who have
10
(B) A pacifist state in which the individuals are
less genetic material in common with the worker, strongly opposed to the use of violence or
supplanted the queen's sons (the worker's brothers). aggression to settle disputes.
Researchers, testing the hypothesis that workers usually
(C) A democratic society in which the voice of the
somehow block each other's attempts to reproduce, put
15
majority rules.
unfertilized eggs laid by workers and by the queen into a (D) A parliamentary society in which a few members,
hive. Other workers quickly devoured the workers' eggs organized as a cabinet wield executive power.
while leaving the queen's eggs alone.
(E) An anarchic state in which order and stable
social structures are lacking
3. The passage best supports which of the following
inferences about the fitness of honeybees?
(A) Reproduction diminishes any individual
honey-bee's fitness.
(B) An individual worker's fitness can be maintained
without the individual herself reproducing.
(C) A hierarchy of stronger and weaker
individuals among the worker bees
determines which individuals will reproduce
when a queen dies.
(D) While a queen reigns, the fitness of the
worker bees is increased and that of the
drones is diminished.
(E) Fitness encourages worker bees to hatch
honeybee eggs without regard for the
relatedness of the young to the "parent".
84Questions 4 and 5 are based on the following reading
For the following question, consider each of the
passage. choices separately and select all that apply
The complications frequently accompanying diabetes, 4. The author provides information that would answer
such as impairment of vision and of kidney function, are
which of the following questions?
now thought to result from the lack of continuous control
A What is hyperglycemia?
□
B What is one cause of hyperglycemia?
□
C What are some of the organs that can be
□
of blood glucose concentrations. The healthy pancreas,
in response to increases in blood glucose concentration,
releases small quantities of insulin throughout
the day and thereby maintains the concentration within
adversely affected by hyperglycemia?
physiological limits (normoglycemia). But the diabetic
generally receives only one large dose daily. The
diabetic's blood glucose concentration can thus fluctuate
5. Select the sentence that shows the cause of radical
greatly during the interval between doses, and it has
changes in the diabetic's blood glucose concentration.
been suggested that the complications result from the
periods of high concentrations of blood glucose
(hyperglycemia). Many investigators thus believe that
restoration of normoglycemia might halt the progression
of such complications and perhaps even reverse them.
85Questions 6 to 8 are based on the following reading
passage.
6. The passage suggests that it would be easier to
The success of fluoride in combating dental decay is
calculate fluoride intake from food if
well established and, without a doubt, socially beneficial.
A adequate diets were available for most people.
○
B individual eating habits were more uniform
○
C the fluoride content of food was more varied
○
However, fluoride's toxic properties have been known for
a century. In humans excessive intake (for adults, over 4
milligrams per day) over many years can lead to skeletal
D more people were aware of the fluoride content
○
of food
E methods for measuring the fluoride content of
○
fluorosis, a well-defined skeletal disorder, and in some
plant species, fluoride is more toxic than ozone, sulfur
dioxide, or pesticides.
food were more generally agreed on
Some important questions remain. For example, the
precise lower limit at which the fluoride content of bone
7. One function of the second paragraph of the
passage is to
A raise doubts about fluoride's toxicity
○
B introduce the issue of fluoride's toxicity
○
becomes toxic is still undetermined. And while fluoride
intake from water and air can be evaluated relatively
easily, it is much harder to estimate how much a given
population ingests from foodstuffs because of the wide
C
○
variations in individual eating habits and in fluoride
differentiate a toxic from a nontoxic amount of
fluoride
concentrations in foodstuffs.
D
○
indicate that necessary knowledge of fluoride
remains incomplete
E
○
discuss the foodstuffs that are most likely to
contain significant concentrations of fluoride
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
8.The passage suggests which of the following about
the effect of fluoride on humans?
A The effect of fluoride intake from water and air
□
is relatively difficult to monitor.
B
□ An intake of 4 milligrams over a long period of
time usually leads to a skeletal disorder in humans.
C An intake of slightly more than 4 milligrams for
□
only a few months is not likely to be life-threatening.
86[This page is intentionally left blank. ]
87Questions 9 to 12 are based on the following reading
passage.
In February 1848 the people of Paris rose in revolt
40
against the constitutional monarchy of Louis-Philippe.
resume their daily routines without ever recording
Despite the existence of excellent narrative accounts, the
Line February Days, as this revolt is called, have been largely
5 ignored by social historians of the past two decades. For
their activities. Those who played salient roles may
become the objects of highly embellished verbal
accounts or in rare cases, of celebratory articles in
each of the three other major insurrections in
45
nineteenth-century Paris-July 1830, June 1843, and May
frequently write memoirs. However, such
backgrounds and an analysis, more or less rigorous, of the
documents are likely to be highly unreliable,
reasons for the occurrence of the uprisings. Only in the
unrepresentative, and unsystematically preserved,
case of the February Revolution do we lack a useful
50
description of participants that might characterize it in the
failed insurrection. As a consequence, it may prove
process of revolutionary mobilization.
difficult or impossible to establish for a successful
Two reasons for this relative neglect seem obvious.
revolution a comprehensive and trustworthy picture
First, the insurrection of February has been overshadowed
55
by that of June. The February Revolution overthrew a
of those who participated, or to answer even the
most basic questions one might pose concerning the
regime, to be sure, but met with so little resistance that it
social origins of the insurgents.
failed to generate any real sense of historical drama. Its
20
especially when compared to the detailed judicial
dossiers prepared for everyone arrested following a
light of what social history has taught us about the
15
contemporary periodicals. And it is true that the
publicly acknowledged leaders of an uprising
1871----there exists at least a sketch of participants'
10
Experiences are retold, but participants typically
successor, on the other hand, appeared to pit key
socioeconomic groups in a life-or-death struggle and was
widely seen by contemporary observers as marking a
historical departure. Through their interpretations, which
exert a continuing influence on our understanding of the
25
For the following question, consider each of the
revolutionary process, the impact of the events of June
choices separately and select all that apply
has been magnified, while, as an unintended consequence,
the significance of the February insurrection has been
9. According to the passage, a useful description
diminished. Second, like other "successful" insurrections,
of participants"(lines 11-12) exists for which of the
the events of February failed to generate the most
30
following insurrections of nineteenth-century
desirable kinds of historical records. Although the June
France?
insurrection of 1848 and the Paris Commune of 1871
would be considered watersheds of nineteenth-century
A The July insurrection of 1830
□
B The February Revolution of 1848
□
C The May insurrection of 1871
□
French history by any standard, they also present the
social historian with a signal advantage: these failed
35
insurrections created a mass of invaluable documentation
as a by-product of authorities' efforts to search out and
punish the rebels.
Quite different is the outcome of successful
insurrections like those of July 1830 and February 1848.
8810. Which of the following, best describes the 12. Which of the following is the most logical objection
organization of the second paragraph?
A The thesis of the passage is stated and
○ to the claim made (lines 38-39) ?
A The February Revolution of 1848 is much less
○
supporting evidence systematically presented.
B
○
significant than the July insurrection of 1830.
B
○
Two views regarding the thesis presented in the
first paragraph are compared and contrasted
C
○
in the July insurrection of 1830 have been
identified, however cursorily.
Evidence refuting the thesis presented in the
C
○
first paragraph is systematically presented.
D
○
E
○
The backgrounds and motivations of participants
The thesis presented in the first paragraph is
systematically supported.
Even less is known about the July insurrection
of 1830 than about the February Revolution
of 1848.
D
○
The thesis presented in the first paragraph is
further defined and a conclusion drawn.
Historical records made during the July
insurrection of 1830 are less reliable than those
made during the May insurrection of 1871.
E
○
11. Which of the following can be inferred about the
"detailed judicial dossiers" referred to in line 50?
A
○
Information contained in the dossiers sheds significance of the February Revolution of
light on the social origins of a revolution's 1848.
participants.
B
○
The dossiers closely resemble the narratives
written by the revolution's leaders in their
personal memoirs.
C
○
The information that such dossiers contain is
untrustworthy and unrepresentative of a
revolution's participants.
D
○
Social historians prefer to avoid such dossiers
whenever possible because they are excessively
detailed.
E
○
The importance of the July insurrection of 1830
has been magnified at the expense of the
The February Revolution of 1848 produced
more of these dossiers than did the June
insurrection.
89Exercise 16
Questions 1 to 3 are based on the following reading For the following question, consider each of the
passage. choices separately and select all that apply
One advantage of breeding African bees with other 1. The author cites all of the following as evidence that
bee types (Africanization) may be resistance to the para- Africanized bees' resistance to Varroa jacobsoni is
sitic mite Varroa jacobsoni, a major threat to modern
superior to that of European bees:
A
□ Varroa jacobsoni is killing many bee colonies in
Line beekeeping. In parts of Europe, this mite is devastating
5
honeybees and killing many colonies despite preventive
Europe.
B
□ Beekeepers in Brazil have not used preventive
measures to protect their colonies.
measures by beekeepers. But in Brazil Varroa jacobsoni
has been present in Africanized bees since 1972 without
C At least some European bee colonies have been
□
saved by preventive measures.
the loss of a single colony, even though beekeepers there
undertook no preventive measures. The mites lay eggs
10
within the brood cells of immature bees, and developing
mites feed on the hemolymph (blood) of bee pupae. But
2. Select the sentence that indicates one possible reason
fewer mites reproduce in Africanized bees than in the Africanized bees in Brazil have successfully
European bees. Some researchers point out that this resisted Varroa jacobsoni .
resistance may be related to the Africanized worker bee's
15
shorter development period, which prevents some mites 3. The author's argument regarding the resistance of
from reaching maturity. Recently the mite has become a Africanized bees to Varroa jacobsoni would be
serious problem in colonies of European bees in North most weakened if which of the following were true?
America. Africanization of these bees may be the best
A
○
safeguard against this parasite.
The bees in Brazil were resistant before being
Africanized.
B
○
The number of bee colonies in North American
increased dramatically whereas the number in
Brazil remained unchanged.
C
○
Mites found in European bees reproduce at a
faster rate than mites of identical species
found in the bees in Brazil.
D
○ Africanized bees retain many of the characteris-
tics of European bees.
E
○ Bee colonies in Europe continue to produce
greater quantities of honey than do those in
Brazil.
90Questions 4 and 5 are based on the following reading
passage.
4. Which of the following best describes the author's
evaluation of the views of the critics?
Innovative as it is, Luis Valdez' acto owes much to the
(A) Their views, if correct, do not preclude the
theater traditions or other periods and regions. Like early existence of an Italian influence on the acto.
Spanish American religious dramas, secular folk dramas, (B) Their views are unlikely to be correct, given
Line and the Mexican carpas of a somewhat later period, actos the differences existing between Mexican and
5 Mexican American theater.
are usually performed outdoors by traveling groups of
players or by local theater groups. The improvised comic
(C) Their views concerning the Mexican carpa are
satire of the actos is often attributed to Valdez' study of essentially correct, but they lack familiarity
the Italian commedia dell' arte of the sixteenth century, with the acto.
although some critics see it as a direct reflection of the
10
(D) Their views are probably more correct than the
comic and improvisational qualities of the more views of those who have attributed the
contemporary and local carpas of Mexican theater. The comic and improvisational elements of the
Italian influence is likely, whatever Valdez' immediate acto to earlier sources.
source: the Mexican carpas themselves are said to have
(E) Their views betray a lack of familiarity with
originated from the theater pieces of a sixteenth-century
15
the commedia dell'arte.
Spanish writer inspired by encounters with Italian
commedia dell'arte troupes on tour in Spain.
5. Which of the following, if true, most strengthens
the author's argument concerning the debt of the
acto to the theater traditions of other periods and
regions?
(A) Many popular forms of theater rely heavily
on improvisation.
(B) Plays resembling the acto in structure were
written in the 1970's by West African
playwrights who are interested in dramatizing
the richness of their own cultures.
(C) The use of masks has, at one time or another,
been characteristic of the theater traditions
of almost all cultures, even those most isolated
from outside influences.
(D) During a strike, it is common for union members
to present musical skits dramatizing the
values of solidarity and resistance.
(E) Before 1965 Luis Valdez had attended many
performances of traditional Mexican theater
groups touring the western United States.
91Questions 6 and 7 are based on the following reading
passage.
The appreciation of traditional oral American Indian
6. Which of the following is most likely one of the
literature has been limited, hampered by poor translations
reasons that the author mentions the work of
N. Scott Momaday?
(A) To illustrate how the author believes that
and by the difficulty, even in the rare culturally sensitive
Line and aesthetically satisfying translation, of completely
5
conveying the original's verse structure, tone, and syntax. some American Indian writers have broadened
By writing in English and experimenting with European their potential audience
(B) To emphasize the similarities between
literary forms, contemporary American Indian writers
10
have broadened their potential audience, while clearly Momaday's writings and their European
retaining many essential characteristics of their ancestral literary models
(C) To demonstrate the contemporary appeal of
oral traditions. For example, Pulitzer-prize-winning
traditional Native American oral literature
author N. Scott Momaday's poetry often treats art and
(D) To suggest that contemporary American Indian
mortality in a manner that recalls British romantic poetry,
15
while his poetic response to the power of natural forces writers have sacrificed traditional values for
recalls Cherokee oral literature. Similarly, his novels, an popular literary success
art form European in origin, display an eloquence that (E) To imply the continuing popularity of transla-
echoes the oratorical grandeur of the great nineteenth- tions of oral American Indian literature
century American Indian chiefs.
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
7. Which of the following can be inferred from the
passage about written translations of oral Native
American poetry?
A They were often made by writers who were
□
intimately familiar with both English and Native
American languages.
B They were less widely read than are the works
□
of contemporary Native American poets
writing in English.
C They were less dependent on European literary
□
models than are the works of contemporary Native
American poets writing in English.
92Question 8 is based on the following reading passage.
Both Fuchs and Sanborn have suggested that the effect
8. A study of the practices of financial institutions that
of discrimination by consumers on the earnings of revealed no discrimination against self-employed women
self-employed women may be greater than the effect of would tend to contradict which of the following?
Line either government or private employer discrimination on 5 the earnings of women employees. To test this hypothesis, (A) Some tentative results of Fuchs's study
Brown selected a large sample of White male and female (B) Some explicit results of Brown's study
workers from the 1970 Census and divided them into (C) A suggestion made by the author
three categories: private employees, government (D) Fuchs's hypothesis
employees, and self-employed. Brown's results suggest (E) Sanborn's hypothesis
10
that men and women are not treated the same by
employers and consumers. For men, self-employment is
the highest earnings category, with private employment
next, and government lowest. For women, this order is
reversed. One can infer from Brown's results that
15
consumers discriminate against self-employed women. In
addition, self-employed women may have more difficulty
than men in getting good employees and may encounter
discrimination from suppliers and from financial
institutions.
93Questions 9 and 10 are based on the following reading
passage.
If people are regarded only as machines guided by
9. The passage suggests that the disparagement of
logic, as they were by some "scientistic" thinkers, rhetoric rhetoric by some people can be traced to their
is likely to be held in low regard; for the most obvious (A) reaction against science
truth about rhetoric is that it speaks to the whole person. (B) lack of training in logic
It presents its arguments first to the person as a rational (C) desire to persuade people as completely as
being. Logical argument is the plot, as it were, of any
possible
speech or essay that is respectfully intended to persuade (D) misunderstanding of the use of the term "scientistic"
people. Yet it is a characterizing feature of rhetoric that it (E) view of human motivation
goes beyond this and appeals to the parts of our nature
that are involved in feeling, desiring, acting, and suffering. For the following question, consider each of the
It recalls relevant instances of the emotional reactions of choices separately and select all that apply
people to circumstances-real or fictional-that are similar
to our own circumstances.
10. Which of the following states the author's
main point about logical argument?
A It is a sterile, abstract discipline, of little use in
□
real life.
B It is an essential element of persuasive
□
discourse, but only one such element.
C It is essential to persuasive discourse because it
□
deals with universal truths.
94Questions 11 to 13 are based on the following reading
passage.
11. The author implies that the rate at which the molten
When a molten metal or metallic alloy is cooled to a
materials discussed in the passage are cooled is a
solid, a crystalline structure is formed that depends on the
determinant of the
particular alloy composition. In contrast, molten
(A) chemical composition of the resulting solids
Line nonmetallic glass-forming materials, when cooled, do not
5
(B) strength of the chemical bonds that are formed
assume a crystalline structure, but instead retain a
(C) kinetics of the materials' crystalline structure
structure somewhat like that of the liquid--an amorphous
(D) structure the materials assume
structure. At room temperature, the natural long-term
(E) stability of the materials' crystalline structure
tendency for both types of materials is to assume the
crystalline structure. The difference between the two is in
10
12. It can be inferred from the passage that, theoretically,
the kinetics or rate of formation of the crystalline
molten nonmetallic glasses assume a crystalline
structure, which is controlled by factors such as the nature
structure rather than an amorphous structure only if
of the chemical bonding and the ease with which atoms
they are cooled
move relative to each other. Thus, in metals, the kinetics
(A) very evenly, regardless of the rate
favors rapid formation of a crystal line structure, whereas
15
(B) rapidly, followed by gentle heating
in nonmetallic glasses the rate of formation is so slow that
(C) extremely slowly
almost any cooling rate is sufficient to result in an
(D) to room temperature
amorphous structure.
(E) to extremely low temperatures
13. Select the sentence in which the author illustrates the
causes of the rate of formation of the crystalline
structure.
95Exercise 17
Volcanic rock that forms as fluid lava chills rapidly is
1. In the passage, the author is primarily interested in
called pillow lava. This rapid chilling occurs when lava erupts (A) analyzing the source of a scientific controversy
directly into water (or beneath ice) or when it flows across a (B) criticizing some geologists' methodology
shoreline and into a body of water. While the term ―pillow lava‖ (C) pointing out the flaws in a geological study
suggests a definite shape, in fact geologists disagree. Some (D) proposing a new theory to explain existing
geologists argue that pillow lava is characterized by discrete,
scientific evidence
ellipsoidal masses. Others describe pillow lava as a tangled
(E) describing a physical phenomenon
mass of cylindrical, interconnected flow lobes. Much of this
controversy probably results from unwarranted extrapolations For the following question, consider each of the
of the original configuration of pillow flows from two- choices separately and select all that apply
dimensional cross sections of eroded pillows in land 2. The author of the passage would most probably
outcroppings. Virtually any cross section cut through a tangled agree that the geologists mentioned in the fourth
mass of interconnected flow lobes would give the appearance sentence have made which of the following errors
of a pile of discrete ellipsoidal masses. Adequate three- in reasoning?
A Generalized unjustifiably from available evidence.
□
B Deliberately ignored existing counterevidence.
□
C Repeatedly failed to take new evidence into account.
□
dimensional images of intact pillows are essential for defining
the true geometry of pillowed flows and thus ascertaining their
mode of origin. Indeed, the term ―pillow,‖ itself suggestive of
discrete masses, is probably a misnomer.
3. The author implies that the ―controversy‖ might be
(165 words)
resolved if
(A) geologists did not persist in using the term
―pillow‖
(B) geologists did not rely on potentially misleading
information
(C) geologists were more willing to confer directly
with one another
(D) two-dimensional cross sections of eroded
pillows were available
(E) existing pillows in land outcroppings were not
so badly eroded
96Draft passages in Proust's 1909 notebooks indicate that
For the following question, consider each of the
the transition from essay to novel Remembrance of Things choices separately and select all that apply
Past began in Contre Saint-Beuve, when Proust introduced 4. According to the passage, in drafts of Contre Saint-
several examples to show the powerful influence that Beuve Proust set out to show that Saint-Beuve made
involuntary memory exerts over the creative imagination. In which of the following mistakes as a critic?
effect, in trying to demonstrate that the imagination is more
profound and less submissive to the intellect than A Saint-Beuve made no effort to study the development
□
Saint-Beuve assumed, Proust elicited vital memories of his of a novel through its drafts and revisions.
B
□ Saint-Beuve assigned too great a role in the
creative process to a writer's conscious
own and, finding subtle connections between them, began to
amass the material for Remembrance. By August, Proust was
writing to Vallette, informing him of his intention to develop
intellect.
C Saint-Beuve concentrated too much on plots and not
□
enough on imagery and other elements of style.
the material as a novel. Maurice Bardeche, in Marcel Proust,
romancier, has shown the importance in the drafts of
Remembrance of spontaneous and apparently random
associations of Proust's subconscious.
5. In the context in which it appears, "spontaneous" in the
(124 words)
last sentence most nearly means.
A contrived
○
B powerful
○
C abstruse
○
D involuntary
○
E premeditated
○
97The great variety of plants in Hawaii is a result of the
6. The author of the passage is primarily concerned with
long-distance dispersal of seeds. There is some dispute
(A) discussing different approaches biologists have
about the method of transport involved. Some biologists taken to testing theories about the distribution of
argue that ocean and air cur-rents are responsible for the plants in Hawaii
transport of plant seeds to Hawaii. Yet the results of
(B) discussing different theories about the transport of
flotation experiments and the low temperatures of air
plant seeds to Hawaii
currents cast doubt on these hypotheses. More probable is
(C) discussing the extent to which air currents are
bird transport, either externally, by accidental attachment of
responsible for the dispersal of plant seeds to
the seeds to feathers, or internally, by the swallowing of
Hawaii
fruit and subsequent excretion of the seeds. While it is
(D) resolving a dispute about the adaptability of plant
likely that fewer varieties of plant seeds have reached Hawaii
seeds to bird transport
externally than internally, more varieties are known to be
(E) resolving a dispute about the ability of birds to
adapted to external than to internal transport.
carry plant seeds long distances
(119 words)
7. The author mentions the results of flotation
experiments on plant seeds most probably
in order to
(A) support the claim that the distribution of plants in
Hawaii is the result of the long-distance dispersal of
seeds
(B) lend credibility to the thesis that air currents provide a
method of transport for plant seeds to Hawaii
(C) suggest that the long-distance dispersal of seeds is a
process that requires long periods of time
(D) challenge the claim that ocean currents are
responsible for the transport of plant seeds to Hawaii
(E) refute the claim that Hawaiian flora evolved
independently from flora in other parts of the world
98Recent scholarship has strongly suggested that the aspects
8. Which of the following statements could most logically
of early New England culture that seem to have been most
follow the last sentence of the passage?
distinctly Puritan, such as the strong religious orientation and
the communal impulse, were not typical of New England as a
(A) Thus, had more attention been paid to the
whole, but were largely confined to the two colonies of evidence, Davis would not have been tempted
Massachusetts and Connecticut. Thus, what in contrast to the to argue that the culture of the South
Puritan colonies appears to Professor Davis to be peculiarly diverged greatly from Puritan culture in the
Southern was not only more typically English than the seventeenth century.
cultural patterns exhibited by Puritan Massachusetts and
(B) Thus, convergence, not divergence, seems to
Connecticut, but also almost certainly characteristic of most have characterized the cultural development
other early modern British colonies from Barbados north to of the American colonies in the eighteenth
Rhode Island and New Hampshire. Within the larger century.
framework of American colonial life, then, not the Southern
(C) Thus, without the cultural diversity represented
but the Puritan colonies appear to have been distinctive, and by the America South, the culture of colonial
even they seem to have been rapidly assimilating to the America would certainly have been
dominant cultural patterns by the late Colonial period. homogeneous in nature.
(D) Thus, the contribution of Southern colonials to
( 145 words)
American culture was certainly overshadowed
by that of the Puritans.
(E) Thus, the culture of America during the Colonial
period was far more sensitive to outside
influences than historians are accustomed to
acknowledge.
99A serious critic has to comprehend the particular content,
9. Select the sentence that gives a reason why it is
unique structure, and special meaning of a work of art. And
insufficient to treat a work of art solely historically.
here she faces a dilemma. The critic must recognize the
artistic element of uniqueness that requires subjective reaction;
10. The author's argument is developed primarily by
yet she must not be unduly prejudiced by such reactions. It is
the use of
necessary that a critic develop a sensibility informed by (A) an attack on sentimentality
familiarity with the history of art and aesthetic theory. On the (B) an example of successful art criticism
other hand, it is insufficient to treat the artwork solely (C) a critique of artists training
historically, in relation to a fixed set of ideas or values. The (D) a warning against extremes in art criticism
critic's knowledge and training are, rather, a preparation of the (E) an analogy between art criticism and art
cognitive and emotional abilities needed for an adequate
production
personal response to an artwork's own particular qualities.
(118 words)
100Exercise 18
Theorists are divided concerning the origin of the Moon.
2. The author implies that a nearly circular orbit is
Some hypothesize that the Moon was formed in the same
unlikely for a satellite that
way as were the planets in the inner solar system (Mercury, (A) circles one of the inner planets
Venus, Mars, and Earth)-from planet-forming materials in (B) is deficient in iron
the presolar nebula. But, unlike the cores of the inner planets, (C) is different from its planet geochemically
the Moon's core contains little or no iron, while the typical (D) was formed by a collision between two celestial
planet-forming materials were quite rich in iron. Other
bodies
theorists propose that the Moon was ripped out of the Earth's
(E) was formed out of the planet-forming materials
rocky mantle by the Earth's collision with another large
in the presolar nebula
celestial body after much of the Earth's iron fell to its core. One
problem with the collision hypothesis is the question of how a
3. Which of the following, if true, would be most likely
satellite formed in this way could have settled into the nearly to make it difficult to verify the collision hypothesis
circular orbit that the Moon has today. Fortunately, the in the manner suggested by the author?
collision hypothesis is testable. If it is true, the mantle rocks (A) The Moon's core and mantle rock are almost
of the Moon and the Earth should be the same geochemically.
inactive geologically.
(155 words)
(B) The mantle rock of the Earth has changed in
composition since the formation of the
For the following question, consider each of the Moon, while the mantle rock of the Moon has
choices separately and select all that apply remained chemically inert.
(C) Much of the Earth's iron fell to the Earth's core
1. According to the passage, Mars and the Earth are
long before the formation of the Moon, after
which the Earth's mantle rock remained
similar in which of the following ways?
unchanged.
(D) Certain of the Earth's elements, such as platinum,
A Their satellites were formed by collisions with
other celestial bodies.
gold, and iridium, followed iron to the
Earth's core.
B Their cores contain iron.
C They were formed from the presolar nebula.
(E) The mantle rock of the Moon contains elements
such as platinum, gold, and iridium.
101A long-held view of the history of the English expedition in more than a century, but it proved to be an
colonies that became the United States has been that utter failure. Under Charles II, the English army was too
England's policy toward these colonies before 1763 was small to be a major instrument of government. Not until the
dictated by commercial interests and that a change to a war France in 1697 did William III persuade Parliament to
more imperial policy, dominated by expansionist militarist create a professional standing army, and Parliaments price
objectives, generated the tensions that ultimately led to the for doing so was to keep the army under tight legislative
American Revolution. In a recent study, Stephen Saunders control. While it may be true that the crown attempted to
Webb has presented a formidable challenge to this view. curtail the power of the colonial upper classes, it is hard to
According to Webb, England already had a military imagine how the English army during the seventeenth
imperial policy for more than a century before the century could have provided significant military support for
American Revolution. He sees Charles II, the English such a policy.
monarch between 1660 and 1685, as the proper successor
(473 words)
of the Tudor monarchs of the sixteenth century and of
Oliver Cromwell, all of whom were bent on extending
centralized executive power over England's possessions
through the use of what Webb calls ―garrison
government.‖Garrison government allowed the colonists a
legislative assembly but real authority, in Webb's view,
belonged to the colonial governor, who was appointed by
the king and supported by the ―garrison,‖ that is, by the
local contingent of English troops under the colonial
governor's command.
According to Webb, the purpose of garrison
government was to provide military support for a royal
policy designed to limit the power of the upper classes in
the American colonies. Webb argues that the colonial
legislative assemblies represented the interests not of the
common people but of the colonial upper classes, a
coalition of merchants and nobility who favored self-rule
and sought to elevate legislative authority at the expense of
the executive. It was, according to Webb, the colonial
governors who favored the small farmer, opposed the
plantation system, and tried through taxation to break up
large holdings of land. Backed by the military presence of
the garrison, these governors tried to prevent the gentry and
merchants, allied in the colonial assemblies, from
transforming colonial America into a capitalistic oligarchy.
Webb's study illuminates the political alignments that
existed in the colonies in the century prior to the American
Revolution, but his view of the crown's use of the military
as an instrument of colonial policy is not entirely
convincing. England during the seventeenth century was
not noted for its military achievements. Cromwell did
mount England's most ambitious overseas military
1024. The passage can best be described as a
6. According to the passage, Webb views Charles II as
the ―proper successor‖ (in the first paragraph) of the
(A) survey of the inadequacies of a conventional
viewpoint
Tudor monarchs and Cromwell because Charles II
(B) reconciliation of opposing points of view
(A) used colonial tax revenues to fund overseas
(C) summary and evaluation of a recent study
military expeditions
(D) defense of a new thesis from anticipated
(B) used the military to extend executive power
objections
over the English colonies
(E) review of the subtle distinctions between
(C) wished to transform the American colonies into
apparently similar views
capitalistic oligarchies
(D) resisted the English Parliament's efforts to exert
5. The passage suggests that the long-standing view
control over the military
referred to in the first paragraph argued that
(E) allowed the American colonists to use legislative
(A) the colonial governors were sympathetic to the
assemblies as a forum for resolving
demands of the common people
grievances against the crown
(B) Charles II was a pivotal figure in the shift of
English monarchs toward a more imperial For the following question, consider each of the
policy in their governorship of the American choices separately and select all that apply
colonies. 7. According to Webb's view of colonial history, which
(C) the American Revolution was generated largely
of the following was (were) true of the merchants
out of a conflict between the colonial upper
and nobility mentioned in the second paragraph?
classes and an alliance of merchants and
A They were opposed to policies formulated by
small farmers
Charles II that would have transformed the
(D) the military did not play a major role as an
colonies into capitalistic oligarchies.
instrument of colonial policy until 1763
B They were opposed to attempts by the English
(E) the colonial legislative assemblies in the
crown to limit the power of the legislative
colonies had little influence over the
assemblies.
colonial governors
C They were united with small farmers in their
opposition to the stationing of English troops
in the colonies.
103At the Shadybrook dog kennel, all the adult animals were
8.
Which of the following, if true, provides the most
support for the kennel owner's hypothesis?
given a new medication designed to reduce a dog's risk of
contracting a certain common infection. Several days after
(A) Some puppies have been given the new medication
the medication was administered, most of the puppies of
directly but have not suffered elevated
these dogs had elevated temperatures. Since raised body
temperatures as a side effect.
temperature is a side effect of this medication, the kennel
(B) The new medication has been well received by dog
owner hypothesized that the puppies' elevated temperatures
breeders as a safe and effective way of preventing
resulted from the medication's being passed to them
the spread of certain common canine infections.
through their mothers' milk.
(C) None of the four puppies in the kennel who had
been bottle-fed with formula had elevated
temperatures.
(D) an elevated temperature is a side effect of a
number of medications for dogs other than the new
medication administered at the kennel.
(E) Elevated temperatures such as those suffered by
most of the puppies in the kennel rarely have
serious long-term effects on a puppy's health.
104The social sciences are less likely than other intellectual
9. Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
enterprises to get credit for their accomplishments. refers to the same meaning as the ―overutilization‖ of
Arguably, this is so because the theories and conceptual the social sciences.
constructs of the social sciences are especially accessible:
human intelligence apprehends truths about human affairs
with particular facility.
This underappreciation of the social sciences contrasts
oddly with what many see as their overutilization. Game
theory is pressed into service in studies of shifting
international alliances. Evaluation research is called upon
to demonstrate successes or failures of social programs. Yet
this rush into practical applications is itself quite
understandable: public policy must continually be made,
and policymakers rightly feel that even tentative findings
and untested theories are better guides to decision-making
than no findings and no theories at all.
(123 words)
105Zooplankton, tiny animals adapted to an existence in the
10. It can be inferred from the passage that which of the
ocean, have evolved clever mechanisms for obtaining their
following is true of appendicularians?
food, miniscule phytoplankton (plant plankton). A very
specialized feeding adaptation in zooplankton is that of the (A) They are exclusively carnivorous.
tadpolelike appendicularian who lives in a walnut-sized (or (B) They have more than one method of obtaining
smaller) balloon of mucus equipped with filters that capture
food.
and concentrate phytoplankton. The balloon, a transparent (C) They can tolerate frigid water.
structure that varies in design according to the type of (D) They can disguise themselves by secreting
appendicularian inhabiting it, also protects the animal and
mucus.
helps to keep it afloat. Water containing phytoplankton is
(E) They are more sensitive to light than are other
pumped by the appendicularian's muscular tail into the
zooplankton.
balloon's incurrent filters, passes through the feeding filter
where the appendicularian sucks the food into its mouth,
and then goes through an exit passage. Found in all the
oceans of the world, including the Arctic Ocean,
appendicularians tend to remain near the water's surface
where the density of phytoplankton is greatest.
(143 words)
106Exercise 19
The common cold, produced most often by rhinoviruses,
is intractable to antiviral defense. A defense against
1. It can be inferred from the passage that a cell
lacking delta-receptors will be
rhinoviruses might nonetheless succeed by exploiting
(A) unable to prevent the rhinoviral nucleic acid
hidden similarities among the rhinovirus strains. For
from shedding its capsid
example, most rhinovirus strains bind to the same kind of (B) defenseless against most strains of rhinovirus
molecule (delta-receptors) on a cell's surface when they (C) unable to release the viral progeny it develops
attack human cells. Colonno, taking advantage of these
after infection
common receptors, devised a strategy for blocking the
(D) protected from new infections by antibodies
attachment of rhinoviruses to their appropriate receptors.
to the rhinovirus
Rather than fruitlessly searching for an antibody that would
bind to all rhinoviruses, Colonno realized that an antibody
(E) resistant to infection by most strains of
rhinovirus
binding to the common receptors of a human cell would
prevent rhinoviruses from initiating an infection. Because
2. It can be inferred from the passage that the purpose
human cells normally do not develop antibodies to
of Colonno's experiments was to determine whether
components of their own cells, Colonno injected human
(A) chimpanzees and humans can both be infected
cells into mice, which did produce an antibody to the
by rhinoviruses
common receptor. In isolated human cells, this antibody
(B) chimpanzees can produce antibodies to human
proved to be extraordinarily effective at thwarting the
cell-surface receptors
rhinovirus. Moreover, when the antibody was given to
(C) a rhinovirus' nucleic acid might be locked in
chimpanzees, it inhibited rhinoviral growth, and in humans
its protein coat
it lessened both the severity and duration of cold symptoms.
(173 words)
(D) binding antibodies to common receptors
could produce a possible defense against
rhinoviruses
(E) rhinoviruses are vulnerable to human anti-
bodies
3. In the context in which it appears, "thwarting" most
nearly means
A accelerating
○
B blocking
○
C warming
○
D abetting
○
E neutralizing
○
1074. Which of the following most logically completes the
(A) the price of oil, once subject to frequent sharp
argument?
increases, has fallen significantly and is now fairly
Alivia's government has approved funds for an
stable
electricity-generation project based on the construction of
(B) the project could restore Lake Tifele, which is
a pipeline that will carry water from Lake Cylus, in the currently at risk of drying up and thus of being lost
mountains, to the much smaller Lake Tifele, in a nearby as a source of recreation income for Alivia
valley. The amount of electricity generated will be
(C) the government of Alivia is currently on excellent
insufficient by itself to justify the project's cost, even if terms with the governments of most of the
the price of imported oil-Alivia's primary source of countries from which it purchases oil
electricity-increases sharply. Nonetheless, the pipeline
(D) it would cost less to generate electricity by moving
project is worth its cost, because --
water from Lake Cylus to lake Tifele than to do so
by moving water from Lake Cylus to another
valley lake
(E) Alivian officials do not expect that the amount of
electricity used in Alivia will increase substantially
within the next ten years
108Students of United States history, seeking to identify the
5. It can be inferred that the author considers those
circumstances that encouraged the emergence of feminist historians who describe early feminists in the United
movements, have thoroughly investigated the mid- States as ―solitary‖ to be
nineteenth-century American economic and social conditions (A) insufficiently familiar with the international
that affected the status of women. These historians, however, origins of nineteenth-century American femi-
have analyzed less fully the development of specifically nist thought
feminist ideas and activities during the same period.
(B) overly concerned with the regional diversity
Furthermore, the ideological origins of feminism in the
of feminist ideas in the period before 1848
United States have been obscured because, even when
(C) not focused narrowly enough in their geo-
historians did take into account those feminist ideas and
graphical scope
activities occurring within the United States, they failed to
(D) insufficiently aware of the ideological conse-
recognize that feminism was then a truly international
quences of the Seneca Falls conference
movement actually centered in Europe. American feminist
(E) insufficiently concerned with the social condi-
activists who have been described as ―solitary‖ and
tions out of which feminism developed
―individual theorists‖ were in reality connected to a
movement-utopian socialism- which was already
6. According to the passage, which of the following
popularizing feminist ideas in Europe during the two decades is true of the Seneca Falls conference on women's
that culminated in the first women's rights conference held at rights?
Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848.
(A) It was primarily a product of nineteenth-
(148 words)
century Saint-Simonian feminist thought.
(B) It was the work of American activists who
were independent of feminists abroad.
(C) It was the culminating achievement of the
utopian socialist movement.
(D) It was a manifestation of an international
movement for social change and feminism.
(E) It was the final manifestation of the women's
rights movement in the United States in the
nineteenth century.
109Researchers of the Pleistocene epoch have developed
7. According to the passage, one of the reasons for the
all sorts of more or less fanciful model schemes of how deficiencies of the ―early classification of Alpine
they would have arranged the Ice Age had they been in glaciation‖ is that it was
charge of events. For example, an early classification of (A) derived from evidence that was only tangentially
Alpine glaciations suggested the existence there of four
related to times of actual glaciation
glaciations, named the Gunz, Mindel, Riss, and Wurm. This
(B) based primarily on fossil remains rather than on
succession was based primarily on a series of deposits and
actual living organisms
events not directly related to glacial and interglacial periods,
(C) an abstract, imaginative scheme of how the
rather than on the more usual modern method of studying period might have been structured
biological remains found in interglacial beds themselves (D) based on unmethodical examinations of
interstratified within glacial deposits. Yet this succession
randomly chosen glacial biological remains
was forced willy-nilly onto the glaciated parts of Northern
(E) derived from evidence that had been haphazardly
Europe, with hopes of ultimately piecing them together to gathered from glacial deposits and inaccurately
provide a complete Pleistocene succession. Eradication of evaluated
the Alpine nomenclature is still proving a Herculean task.
8. Which of the following does the passage imply about
the ―early classification of Alpine glaciation‖ ?
(132 words)
(A) It should not have been applied as widely as
it was.
(B) It represents the best possible scientific practice,
given the tools available at the time.
(C) It was a valuable tool, in its time, for measuring
the length of the four periods of glaciation.
(D) It could be useful, but only as a general guide
to the events of the Pleistocene epoch.
(E) It does not shed any light on the methods used
at the time for investigating periods of glaciation.
110When speaking of Romare Bearden, one is tempted to
For the following question, consider each of the
say, ―A great Black American artist.‖ The subject matter of choices separately and select all that apply
Bearden's collages is certainly Black. Portrayals of the folk 9. According to the passage, all of the following are
of Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, whom he
depicted in Bearden's collages
remembers from early childhood, of the jazz musicians and
tenement roofs of his Harlem days, of Pittsburgh A workers in Pittsburgh's steel mills
steelworkers, and his reconstruction of classical Greek B the jazz musicians of the Harlem Bearden used
myths in the guise of the ancient Black kingdom of Benin,
to know
attest to this. In natural harmony with this choice of subject
C people Bearden knew as a child
matter are the social sensibilities of the artist, who remains
active today with the Cinque Gallery in Manhattan, which
he helped found and which is devoted to showing the work
of minority artists.
10. Select the sentence that indicates the explanatory goal
(114 words)
when the author mentions Bearden's social
sensibilities and the subject matter of his collages.
111[This page is intentionally left blank. ]
112Exercise 20
Diamonds, an occasional component of rare igneous
1. The author implies that silicate inclusions were most
rocks called lamproites and kimberlites, have never been
often formed
dated satisfactorily. However, some diamonds contain minute (A) with small diamonds inside of them
inclusions of silicate minerals, commonly olivine, pyroxene, (B) with trace elements derived from their host
and garnet. These minerals can be dated by radioactive decay
minerals
techniques because of the very small quantities of (C) by the radioactive decay of rare igneous rocks
radioactive trace elements they, in turn, contain. Usually, it is (D) at an earlier period than were their host
possible to conclude that the inclusions are older than their
minerals
diamond hosts, but with little indication of the time interval
(E) from the crystallization of rare igneous material
involved. Sometimes, however, the crystal form of the
silicate inclusions is observed to resemble more closely the
2. Select the sentence in the passage that indicates a way
internal structure of diamond than that of other silicate to determine the age of silicate minerals included in
minerals. When present, the resemblance is regarded as diamonds.
compelling evidence that the diamonds and inclusions are
truly cogenetic.
(121 words)
113For some time scientists have believed that cholesterol
converted to LDL's. The LDL receptors thus have a dual
plays a major role in heart disease because people with effect in controlling LDL levels. They are necessary to
familial hypercholesterolemia, a genetic defect, have six to prevent oversynthesis of LDL's from VLDL remnants and
eight times the normal level of cholesterol in their blood and they are necessary for the normal removal of LDL's from the
they invariably develop heart disease. These people lack blood. With this knowledge, scientists are now well on the
cell-surface receptors for low-density lipoproteins (LDL's), way toward developing drugs that dramatically lower
which are the fundamental carriers
of blood cholesterol to cholesterol levels in people afflicted with certain forms of
the body cells that use cholesterol. Without an adequate
familial hypercholesterolemia.
number of cell-surface receptors to remove LDL's from the
blood, the cholesterol-carrying LDL's remain in the blood,
increasing blood cholesterol levels. Scientists also noticed
that people with familial hypercholesterolemia appear to
produce more LDL's than normal individuals. How, scientists
wondered, could a genetic mutation that causes a slow-down
in the removal of LDL's from the blood also result in an
increase in the synthesis of this cholesterol-carrying protein?
Since scientists could not experiment on human body
tissue, their knowledge of familial hyper- cholesterolemia
was severely limited. However, a breakthrough came in the
laboratories of Yoshio Watanabe of Kobe University in Japan
in 1980. Watanabe noticed that a male rabbit in his colony
had ten times the normal concentration of cholesterol in its
blood. By appropriate breeding, Watanabe obtained a strain
of rabbits that had very high cholesterol levels. These rabbits
spontaneously developed heart disease. To his surprise,
Watanabe further found that the rabbits, like humans with
familial hypercholesterolemia, lacked LDL receptors. Thus,
scientists could study these Watanabe rabbits to gain a better
understanding of familial hyper-
cholesterolemia in humans.
Prior to the breakthrough at Kobe University, it was
known that LDL's are secreted from the liver in the form of a
precursor, called very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL's),
which carry triglycerides as well as relatively small amounts
of cholesterol. The triglycerides are removed from the
VLDL's by fatty and other tissues. What remains is a remnant
particle that must be removed from the blood. What scientists
learned by studying the Watanabe rabbits is that the removal
of the VLDL remnant requires the LDL receptor. Normally,
the majority of the VLDL remnants go to the liver where they
bind to LDL receptors and are degraded. In the Watanabe
rabbit, due to a lack of LDL receptors on liver cells, the
VLDL remnants remain in the blood and are eventually
1143. In the passage, the author is primarily concerned with
5. The passage implies that if the Watanabe rabbits
(A) presenting a hypothesis and describing
had had as many LDL receptors on their livers as
compelling evidence in support of it
do normal rabbits, the Watanabe rabbits would
(B) raising a question and describing an important
have been
discovery that led to an answer
(A) less likely than normal rabbits to develop heart
(C) showing that a certain genetically caused
disease
disease can be treated effectively with drugs
(B) less likely than normal rabbits to develop high
(D) explaining what causes the genetic mutation
concentrations of cholesterol in their blood
that leads to heart disease
(C) less useful than they actually were to scientists
(E) discussing the importance of research on
in the study of familial hypercholesterolemia
animals for the study of human disease
in humans
(D) unable to secrete VLDL's from their livers
For the following question, consider each of the
(E) immune to drugs that lower cholesterol levels in
choices separately and select all that apply people with certain forms of familial
4. The passage supplies information to answer which hypercholesterolemia
of the following questions EXCEPT?
6. The passage implies that Watanabe rabbits differ
A Which body cells are the primary users of
from normal rabbits in which of the following ways?
cholesterol?
(A) Watanabe rabbits have more LDL receptors
B How did scientists discover that LDL's are
than do normal rabbits.
secreted from the liver in the form of a precursor?
(B) The blood of Watanabe rabbits contains more
C Where in the body are VLDL remnants
VLDL remnants than does the blood of
degraded?
normal rabbits.
(C) Watanabe rabbits have fewer fatty tissues than
do normal rabbits.
(D) Watanabe rabbits secrete lower levels of
VLDL's than do normal rabbits.
(E) The blood of Watanabe rabbits contains fewer
LDL's than does the blood of normal
rabbits.
115Discussion of the assimilation of Puerto Ricans in the
7. It can be inferred from the passage that a writer such as
United States has focused on two different factors: social Eugenio Fernandez Mendez would most likely agree with
standing and the loss of national culture, depending on which of the following statements concerning members of
whether the commentator is North American or Puerto Rican. minority ethnic groups?
Many North American social scientists consider Puerto
(A) It is necessary for the members of such groups
Ricans as the most recent in a long line of ethnic entrants to
to adapt to the culture of the majority.
occupy the lowest rung on the social ladder. Such a ―socio-
(B) The members of such groups generally encounter
demographic‖ approach tends to regard assimilation as a a culture that is static and undifferentiated.
benign process. In contrast, the ―colonialist‖ approach of (C) Social mobility is the most important feature
island-based writers tends to view assimilation as the forced
of the experience of members of such groups.
loss of national culture in an unequal contest with imposed
(D) Social scientists should emphasize the cultural
foreign values. There is, of course, a strong tradition of and political aspects of the experience of
cultural accommodation among other Puerto Rican thinkers, members of such groups.
like Eugenio Fernandez Mendez. But the Puerto Rican
(E) The assimilation of members of such groups
intellectuals who have written most about the assimilation requires the forced abandonment of their
process in the United States all advance cultural nationalist authentic national roots.
views, advocating the preservation of minority cultural
distinctions and rejecting what they see as the subjugation of
colonial nationalities.
8. In the context in which it appears, "subjugation" in the
(162 words)
last sentence most nearly means
A accommodation
○
B subjection
○
C assimilation
○
D incorporation
○
E defeatism
○
1169. When cut, the synthetic material fiberglass, like asbestos, The statements above, if true, most strongly support
releases microscopic fibers into the air. It is known that which of the following hypotheses?
people who inhale asbestos, fibers suffer impairment of
lung functions. A study of 300 factory workers who
(A) People who work with fiberglass are likely also to
regularly cut fiberglass showed that their lung capacity is,
work with asbestos.
on average, only 90 percent of that of a comparable group
(B) Fiberglass fibers impair lung function in people who
of people who do not cut fiberglass.
inhale them.
(C) Fiberglass releases as many fibers into the air when
cut as does asbestos.
(D) Coarse fibers do not impair lung function in people
who inhale them.
(E) If uncut, fiberglass poses no health risk to people who
work with it.
117Simone de Beauvoir's work greatly influenced Betty
For the following question, consider each of the
Friedan's----indeed, made it possible. Why, then, was it choices separately and select all that apply
Friedan who became the prophet of women's emancipation 10. It can be inferred from the passage that which of the
in the United States? Political conditions, as well as a following is a factor in the explanation of why
certain anti-intellectual bias, prepared Americans and the The Feminine Mystique was received more
American media to better receive Friedan's deradicalized positively in the United States than was The
and highly pragmatic The Feminine Mystique, published in Second Sex?
1963, than Beauvoir's theoretical reading of women's
situation in The Second Sex. In 1963 when The Second Sex
A By 1963 political conditions in the United
first appeared in translation in the United States, the
States had changed.
country had entered the silent, fearful fortress of the
B Friedan's approach to the issue of women's
anticommunist McCarthy years (1950-1954), and Beauvoir
emancipation was less radical than Beauvoir's.
was suspected of Marxist sympathies. Even The Nation, a
C Readers did not recognize the powerful influence of
generally liberal magazine, warned its readers against
―certain political leanings‖ of the author.
Beauvoir's book on Friedan's ideas.
(120 words)
118Exercise 21
Nevelson says, ―I have always wanted to show the
1. Which of the following is one way in which Nevel-
son's art illustrates her theory as it is expressed in
world that art is everywhere, except that it has to pass
through a creative mind.‖ Using mostly discarded wooden
the first sentence?
(A) She sculpts in wood rather than in metal or
objects like packing crates, broken pieces of furniture, and
stone.
abandoned architectural ornaments, all of which she has
(B) She paints her sculptures and frames them in
hoarded for years, she assembles architectural constructions
boxes.
of great beauty and power. Creating very freely with no
(C) She makes no preliminary sketches but rather
sketches, she glues and nails objects together, paints them
allows the sculpture to develop as she works.
black, or more rarely white or gold, and places them in
(D) She puts together pieces of ordinary objects
boxes. These assemblages, walls, even entire environments
create a mysterious, almost awe-inspiring atmosphere. once used for different purposes to make her
Although she has denied any symbolic or religious intent in sculptures.
(E) She does not deliberately attempt to convey
her works, their three-dimensional grandeur and even their
titles, such as Sky Cathedral and Night Cathedral, suggest symbolic or religious meanings through her
such connotations. sculpture.
(124 words)
119Until recently astronomers have been puzzled by the
evolution? Astronomers suggest that stars like
fate of red giant and supergiant stars. When the core of a IRC+10216 are actually ―protoplanetary nebulas‖ –old
giant star whose mass surpasses 1.4 times the present giant stars whose dense cores have almost but not quite
mass of our Sun (M ⊙ ) exhausts its nuclear fuel, it is rid themselves of the fluffy envelopes of gas around them.
unable to support its own weight and collapses into a tiny Once the star has lost the entire envelope, its exposed
neutron star. The gravitational energy released during this core becomes the central star of the planetary nebula and
implosion of the core blows off the remainder of the star heats and ionizes the last vestiges of the envelope as it
in a gigantic explosion, or a supernova. flows away into space. This configuration is a
Since around 50 percent of all stars are believed to
full-fledged planetary nebula, long familiar to optical
begin their lives with masses greater than 1.4M ⊙ , we
astronomers.
might expect that one out of every two stars would die as
a supernova. But in fact, only one star in thirty dies such a
violent death. The rest expire much more peacefully as
planetary nebulas. Apparently most massive stars manage
to lose sufficient material that their masses drop below
the critical value of 1.4 M ⊙ before they exhaust their
2. The primary purpose of the passage is to
nuclear fuel. Evidence supporting this view comes from
(A) offer a method of calculating the age of circum-
observations of IRC+10216, a pulsating giant star located
stellar clouds
(B) describe the conditions that result in a star's
700 light-years away from Earth. A huge rate of mass loss
(1 M ⊙ every 10,000 years) has been deduced from
expiring as a supernova
infrared observations of ammonia (NH 3) molecules
(C) discuss new evidence concerning the composition
located in the circumstellar cloud around IRC+10216.
of planetary nebulas
Recent microwave observations of carbon monoxide
(D) explain why fewer stars than predicted expire as
(CO) molecules indicate a similar rate of mass loss and
supernovas
demonstrate that the escaping material extends outward
(E) survey conflicting theories concerning the
from the star for a distance of at least one light-year.
composition of circumstellar clouds
Because we know the size of the cloud around
IRC+10216 and can use our observations of either NH 3 or
3. The view mentioned in the middle of the second
CO to measure the outflow velocity, we can calculate an
paragraph serves to
age for the circumstellar cloud. IRC+10216 has (A) reconcile seemingly contradictory facts
apparently expelled, in the form of molecules and dust (B) undermine a previously held theory
grains, a mass equal to that of our entire Sun within the (C) take into account data previously held to be
past ten thousand years. This implies that some stars can
insignificant
shed huge amounts of matter very quickly and thus may (D) resolve a controversy
never expire as supernovas. Theoretical models as well as (E) question new methods of gathering data
statistics on supernovas and planetary nebulas suggest
that stars that begin their lives with masses around 6 M ⊙
shed sufficient material to drop below the critical value of
1.4M ⊙ . IRC+10216, for example, should do this in a mere
50,000 years from its birth, only an instant in the life of a
star.
But what place does IRC+10216 have in stellar
1204. It can be inferred from the passage that the author
5. According to information provided by the passage,
assumes which of the following in the discussion of which of the following stars would astronomers
the rate at which IRC+10216 loses mass? most likely describe as a planetary nebula?
(A) The circumstellar cloud surrounding
(A) A star that began its life with a mass of
IRC+10216 consists only of CO 5.5 M ⊙ , has exhausted its nuclear fuel, and
and NH 3 molecules. has a core that is visible to astronomers
(B) The circumstellar cloud surrounding
(B) A star that began its life with a mass of 6 M ⊙ ,
IRC+10216 consists of material expelled
lost mass at a rate of 1 M ⊙ per 10,000 years,
from that star.
and exhausted its nuclear fuel in 40,000 years
(C) The age of a star is equal to that of its
(C) A star that has exhausted its nuclear fuel, has a
circumstellar cloud.
mass of 1.2 M ⊙ , and is surrounded by a
(D) The rate at which IRC+10216 loses mass
circumstellar cloud that obscures its core
varies significantly from year to year.
from view
(E) Stars with a mass greater than 6 M ⊙ lose
(D) A star that began its life with a mass greater
mass at a rate faster than stars with a mass than 6 M ⊙ , has just recently exhausted its
less than 6 M ⊙ do. nuclear fuel, and is in the process of releasing
massive amounts of gravitational energy
(E) A star that began its life with a mass of
5.5 M ⊙ , has yet to exhaust its nuclear fuel,
and exhibits a rate of mass loss similar to
that of IRC+10216
121―Popular art‖ has a number of meanings, impossible to
6. The author refers to Schubert and Brahms in order
define with any precision, which range from folklore to
to suggest
junk. The poles are clear enough, but the middle tends to
(A) that their achievements are no less substantial
blur. The Hollywood Western of the 1930's, for example,
than those of Verdi
has elements of folklore, but is closer to junk than to high (B) that their works are examples of great trash
art or folk art. There can be great trash, just as there is bad (C) the extent to which Schubert and Brahms
high art. The musicals of George Gershwin are great
influenced the later compositions of Verdi
popular art, never aspiring to high art. Schubert and Brahms,
(D) a contrast between the conventions of
however, used elements of popular music-folk themes-in nineteenth-century opera and those of
works clearly intended as high art. The case of Verdi is a other musical forms
different one: he took a popular genre-bourgeois
(E) that popular music could be employed in
melodrama set to music (an accurate definition of
compositions intended as high art
nineteenth-century opera)-and, without altering its
fundamental nature, transmuted it into high art. (133 words)
122Which of the following is an assumption on which the
7. On turning 65 years old, everyone living in the town of
argument depends?
Malton becomes eligible to receive a card that
guarantees discounts on most goods and services sold
(A) The town of Malton has no complete census
in the town. Census records for 1990 show that 2,
records for 1991.
450 inhabitants of Malton turned 64 in that year. Yet .
(B) The overall size of the population of Malton grew
in 1991 over 3,000 people applied for and properly
by over 500 during 1990.
received discount cards. So clearly some of Malton's
(C) Fewer people applied for and received discount
population growth between 1990 and 1992 must be
cards in 1991 than did so in 1992.
attributable to migration into the city by people in
(D) Among the people 65 years old or older who
their mid -60's
moved into Malton in 1991. there was no one
who did not apply for a discount card .
(E) In general. people who applied for and received
discount cards in 1991 first became eligible to do
so in that year
123One of the questions of interest in the study of the
For the following question, consider each of the
evolution of spiders is whether the weaving of orb webs choices separately and select all that apply
evolved only once or several times. About half the 9. According to the passage, members of the Araneidae
35,000 known kinds of spiders make webs; a third of the family can be distinguished from members of the
web weavers make orb webs. Since most orb weavers Uloboridae family by all of the following
belong either to the Araneidae or the Uloboridae
families, the origin of the orb web can be determined A the presence of venom glands
only by ascertaining whether the families are related. B the structure of their body hair
Recent taxonomic analysis of individuals from both
C the arrangement of their eyes
families indicates that the families evolved from different
ancestors, thereby contradicting Wiehle's theory. This
10. Which of the following statements, if true, most
theory postulates that the families must be related, based weakens Wiehle's theory that complex behavior
on the assumption that complex behavior, such as web could evolve only once?
building, could evolve only once. According to Kullman,
(A) Horses, introduced to the New World by the
web structure is the only characteristic that suggests a Spaniards, thrived under diverse climatic
relationship between families. The families differ in conditions.
appearance, structure of body hair, and arrangement
(B) Plants of the Palmaceae family, descendants of
of eyes. Only Uloborids lack venom glands. Further a common ancestor, evolved unique seed
identification and study of characteristic features will forms even though the plants occupy similar
undoubtedly answer the question of the evolution of habitats throughout the world.
the orb web.
(172 words)
(C) All mammals are descended from a small,
rodentlike animal whose physical characteris-
tics in some form are found in all its descen-
8. The primary purpose of the passage is to
dants.
(A) settle the question of whether orb webs evolved
(D) Plants in the Cactaceae and Euphorbiaceae
once or more than once
families, although they often look alike and
(B) describe scientific speculation concerning an
have developed similar mechanisms to meet
issue related to the evolution of orb webs
the rigors of the desert, evolved indepen-
(C) analyze the differences between the character-
dently.
istic features of spiders in the Araneidae and
(E) The Cuban anole, which was recently intro-
Uloboridae families
duced in the Florida wilds, is quickly
(D) question the methods used by earlier investiga-
replacing the native Florida chameleon
tors of the habits of spiders
because the anole has no competitors.
(E) demonstrate that Araneidae spiders are not
related to Uloboridae spiders
124Exercise 22
Historically, a cornerstone of classical empiricism has
1. According to Quine's conception of empiricism, if a
been the notion that every true generalization must be new observation were to contradict some statement
confirmable by specific observations. In classical already within our system of knowledge, which of
empiricism, the truth of ―All balls are red,‖ for example, is the following would be true?
assessed by inspecting balls; any observation of a non red
(A) The new observation would be rejected as
ball refutes unequivocally the proposed generalization.
untrue.
For W.V.O. Quine, however, this constitutes an overly
(B) Both the observation and the statement in our
―narrow‖ conception of empiricism. ―All balls are red,‖ he system that it contradicted would be
maintains, forms one strand within an entire web of discarded.
statements (our knowledge); individual observations can be
(C) New observations would be added to our web
referred only to this web as a whole. As new observations of statements in order to expand our system
are collected, he explains, they must be integrated into the of knowledge.
web. Problems occur only if a contradiction develops
(D) The observation or some part of our web of
between a new observation, say, ―That ball is blue,‖ and the statements would need to be adjusted to
preexisting statements. In that case, he argues, any resolve the contradiction.
statement or combination of statements (not merely the
(E) An entirely new field of knowledge would be
―offending‖ generalization, as in classical empiricism) can
created.
be altered to achieve the fundamental requirement, a system
free of contradictions, even if, in some cases, the alteration For the following question, consider each of the
consists of labeling the new observation a ―hallucination.‖ choices separately and select all that apply
(172 words)
2. It can be inferred from the passage that Quine
considers classical empiricism to be ―overly
 ̳narrow' ‖for which of the following reasons?
A Classical empiricism requires that our system
of generalizations be free of contradictions.
B Classical empiricism demands that in the case
of a contradiction between an individual
observation and a generalization, the
generalization must be abandoned.
C Classical empiricism asserts that every observation
will either confirm an existing generalization
or initiate a new generalization.
125Shergottites, the name given to three anomalous
3. The passage provides information to answer which
achondrites (igneous meteorites lacking chondrules) so far
of the following questions?
discovered on Earth, present scientists with a genuine (A) What is the precise age of the solar system?
enigma. Shergottites crystallized from molten rock less (B) How did shergottites get their name?
than 1.1 billion years ago (some 3.5 billion years later than (C) What are the chemical properties shared by
typical achondrites) and were presumably ejected into
shergottites and Martian soils?
space when an object impacted on a body similar in (D) How volcanically active is the planet Jupiter?
chemical composition to Earth. While some scientists (E) What is a major feature of the Martian surface?
speculate that shergottites derive from Io (a volcanically
active moon of Jupiter), recent measurements suggest that For the following question, consider each of the
since Io's surface is rich in sulfur and sodium, the chemical choices separately and select all that apply
composition of its volcanic products would probably be 4. It can be inferred from the passage that each of the
unlike that of the shergottites. Moreover, any fragments following is a consideration in determining whether
dislodged from Io by interbody impact would be unlikely a particular planet is a possible source of shergottites
to escape the gravitational pull of Jupiter. that have been discovered on Earth
The only other logical source of shergottites is Mars.
Space-probe photographs indicate the existence of giant A strength of the planet's field of gravity
volcanoes on the Martian surface. From the small number of B proximity of the planet to its moons
impact craters that appear on Martian lava flows, one can C chemical composition of the planet's surface
estimate that the planet was volcanically active as recently
as a half-billion years ago-and may be active today.
(178 words)
126Scientists have sought evidence of long-term solar
5. It can be inferred from the passage that studies
periodicities by examining indirect climatological data, attempting to use tree-ring thickness to locate possible
such as fossil records of the thickness of ancient tree rings. links between solar periodicity and terrestrial climate are
These studies, however, failed to link unequivocally based on which of the following assumptions?
terrestrial climate and the solar-activity cycle, or even to
(A) The solar-activity cycle existed in its present form
confirm the cycle's past existence.
during the time period in which the tree
rings grew.
(B) The biological mechanisms causing tree growth
are unaffected by short-term weather pat terns.
(C) Average tree-ring thickness varies from species
to species.
(D) Tree-ring thicknesses reflect changes in terrestrial
climate.
(E) Both terrestrial climate and the solar-activity
cycle randomly affect tree-ring thickness.
127In Raisin in the Sun, Lorraine Hansberry does not reject
6.The author's primary purpose in this passage is to
integration or the economic and moral promise of the
(A) explain some critics' refusal to consider Raisin
American dream; rather, she remains loyal to this dream
in the Sun a deliberately ironic play
while looking, realistically, at its incomplete realization.
(B)suggest that ironic nuances ally Raisin in the
Once we recognize this dual vision, we can accept the
Sun with Du Bois' and Fanon's writings
play's ironic nuances as deliberate social commentaries by
Hansberry rather than
(C) analyze the fundamental dramatic conflicts in
as the "unintentional" irony that
Raisin in the Sun
Bigsby attributes to the work. Indeed a curiously persistent
(D) justify the inclusion of contradictory elements
refusal to credit Hansberry with a capacity for intentional
in Raisin in the Sun
irony has led some critics to interpret the play's thematic
(E) affirm the thematic coherence underlying Raisin in
conflicts as mere confusion, contradiction, or eclecticism.
the Sun
Isaacs, for example, cannot easily reconcile Hansberry's
intense concern for her race with her ideal of human
7. Select the sentence that the author of the passage
reconciliation. But the play's complex view of Black reinforce his criticism of responses such as Isaacs' to
self-esteem and human solidarity as compatible is no more Raisin in the Sun?
"contradictory" than Du Bois' famous, well-considered
ideal of ethnic self-awareness coexisting with human unity,
8.The author of the passage would probably consider
or Fanon's emphasis on an ideal internationalism that also which of the following judgments to be most similar
accommodates national identities and roles. to the reasoning of critics?
(158 words)
(A) The world is certainly flat; therefore, the person
proposing to sail around it is unquestionably
foolhardy.
(B) Radioactivity cannot be directly perceived;
therefore, a scientist could not possibly control
it in a laboratory.
(C) The painter of this picture could not intend it to
be funny, therefore, its humor must result
from a lack of skill.
(D) Traditional social mores are beneficial to culture;
therefore, anyone who deviates from
them acts destructively.
(E) Filmmakers who produce documentaries deal
exclusively with facts; therefore, a filmmaker
who reinterprets particular events is misleading us.
128The transplantation of organs from one individual to
9 The primary purpose of the passage is to treat the
another normally involves two major problems: (1) organ accepted generalizations about organ transplantation in
rejection is likely unless the transplantation antigens of which of the following ways?
both individuals are nearly identical, and (2) the (A) Explicate their main features
introduction of any unmatched transplantation antigens (B) Suggest an alternative to them
induces the development by the recipient of donor-specific (C) Examine their virtues and limitations
lymphocytes that will produce violent rejection of further (D) Criticize the major evidence used to support them
transplantations from that donor. However, we have found (E) Present findings that qualify them
that, among many strains of rats, liver transplants are never
rejected, and that they even induce a state of donor-specific
unresponsiveness. Our hypothesis is that (1) many strains
10. Which of the following new findings about strains
of rats simply cannot mount a sufficiently vigorous of rats that do not normally reject liver transplants,
destructive immune-response (using lymphocytes) to if true, would support the authors' hypothesis?
outstrip the liver's relatively great capacity to protect itself I. Stomach transplants are accepted by the
from immune-response damage and that (2) the systemic
recipients in all cases.
II. Increasing the strength of the recipient's
unresponsiveness observed is due to concentration of the
recipient's donor-specific lymphocytes at the site of the immune-response reaction can induce
liver transplant. liver-transplant rejection.
(138 words)
III. Organs from any other donor can be transplanted
without rejection after liver transplantation.
IV. Preventing lymphocytes from being concentrated
at the liver transplant produces acceptance of skin
transplants.
(A) II only
(B) I and III only
(C) II and IV only
(D) I, II, and III only
(E) I, III, and IV only
129Exercise 23
The common belief of some linguists that each language
1.The primary purpose of the passage is to
is a perfect vehicle for the thoughts of the nation speaking
(A) analyze an interesting feature of the English
it is in some ways the exact counterpart of the conviction of
language
the Manchester school of economics that supply and (B) refute a belief held by some linguists
demand will regulate everything for the best. Just as (C) show that economic theory is relevant to
economists were blind to the numerous cases in which the
linguistic study
law of supply and demand left actual wants unsatisfied, so
(D) illustrate the confusion that can result from the
also many linguists are deaf to those instances in which the
improper use of language
very nature of a language calls forth misunderstandings in
(E) suggest a way in which languages can be made
everyday conversation, and in which, consequently, a word
more nearly perfect
has to be modified or defined in order to present the idea
intended by the speaker: "He took his stick-no, not John's, For the following question, consider each of the
but his own." No language is perfect, and if we admit this choices separately and select all that apply
truth, we must also admit that it is not unreasonable to 2. The misunderstanding presented by the author in
investigate the relative merits of different languages or of
different details in languages.
the passage is similar to which of the following?
( 155 words)
A X uses the word "you" to refer to a group, but Y
thinks that X is referring to one person only.
B X mistakenly uses the word "anomaly"
to refer to a typical example, but Y knows that
"anomaly" means "exception."
C X uses the word "bachelor" to mean "unmarried
man," but Y mistakenly thinks that bachelor means
"unmarried woman."
3.In presenting the argument, the author does all of
the following EXCEPT
(A) give an example
(B) draw a conclusion
(C) make a generalization
(D) make a comparison
(E) present a paradox
130Currently, there are two models of solar activity. The
4.Which of the following statements about the two
first supposes that the Sun's internal motions (caused by models of solar activity, as they are described in the
rotation and convection) interact with its large-scale passage, is accurate?
magnetic field to produce a dynamo, a device in which
mechanical energy is converted into the energy of a
(A) In both models cyclical solar activity is regarded
magnetic field. In short, the Sun's large-scale magnetic as a long-lived feature of the Sun, persisting
field is taken to be self-sustaining, so that the solar- with little change over billions of years.
activity cycle it drives would be maintained with little
(B) In both models the solar-activity cycle is
overall change for perhaps billions of years. The hypothesized as being dependent on the
alternative explanation supposes that the Sun's large-scale large-scale solar magnetic field.
magnetic field is a remnant of the field the Sun acquired
(C) In one model the Sun's magnetic field is
when it formed, and is not sustained against decay. In this thought to play a role in causing solar activity,
model, the solar mechanism dependent on the Sun's whereas in the other model it is not.
magnetic field runs down more quickly. Thus, the (D) In one model solar activity is presumed to be
characteristics of the solar-activity cycle could be unrelated to terrestrial phenomena, whereas
expected to change over a long period of time. in the other model solar activity is thought to
(140 words)
have observable effects on the Earth.
(E) In one model cycles of solar activity with period-
icities longer than a few decades arc
considered to be impossible, whereas in the other
model such cycles are predicted.
1315. Which of the following most accurately describes the
Like most other coastal towns in Norway, the town of
method of reasoning employed in the argument?
Stavanger was quiet and peaceful until the early 1960's,
when it became Norway's center for offshore oil
(A) Arguing that a circumstance is not a precondition
exploration. Between then and now, violent crime and for a phenomenon on the grounds that the
vandalism in Stavanger have greatly increased. phenomenon sometimes occurs where the
Stavanager's social problems probably resulted from the circumstance is not present
oil boom, since violent crime and vandalism have
(B) Arguing that a circumstance is a cause of a
remained low in coastal towns in Norway that have had phenomenon on the grounds that the
no oil boom. phenomenon has not occurred where the
circumstance is not present
(C) Arguing that a particular thing cannot have
caused a phenomenon because that thing was not
present before the phenomenon occurred
(D) Attempting to establish a claim by arguing that
the denial of the claim is inconsistent with the
observed facts
(E) Attempting to establish that certain circumstances
that would have had to occur for a particular
explanation to be correct could not have occurred
132Modern archaeological finds can still contribute
6. According to the passage, in the absence of definite
much to the study of ancient literature. For example, forty knowledge concerning the dates of composition of
years ago a survey of the early Greek dramatist ancient literary works, literary historians do which
Aeschylus' plays would have started with The Suppliant of the following when trying to establish the
Women. Many factors internal to the play, but perhaps chronology of an author's work?
most especially the prominence of the chorus, led
scholars to consider it one of Aeschylus' earlier works.
(A) Make assumptions about a single work's date
The consensus was that here was a drama truly reflecting of composition if such assumptions would
an early stage in the evolution of tragedy out of choral not seriously affect interpretations of other
lyric. The play was dated as early as the 490's B.C., in works by the same author.
any event, well before Aeschylus' play The Persians of
(B) Draw inferences concerning the date of a
472 B.C. Then, in 1952, a fragment of papyrus found at work's composition based on evidence internal
Oxyrhynchus was published. The fragment announced to that work and on the author's other works.
that Aeschylus won first prize with his Danaid tetralogy, (C) Ignore the date of a work's composition which
of which The Suppliant Women is the opening play, and is supplied by archaeological research when
defeated Sophocles in the process. Sophocles did not literary factors internal to the work contradict
compete in any dramatic contest before 468 B.C., when that date.
he won his first victory. Hence, the Danaid tetralogy must
be put after 468 B.C.
(D) Refrain from speculation concerning a work's
(169 words)
date of composition unless archaeological
finds produce information concerning it.
(E) Estimate the date of a work's composition
without attempting to relate it to the author's
development as an artist.
133As Gilbert White, Darwin, and others observed long
In order to understand the nature of the ecologist's
ago, all species appear to have the innate capacity to investigation, we may think of the density-dependent
increase their numbers from generation to generation. The effects on growth parameters as the "signal" ecologists
task for ecologists is to untangle the environmental and are trying to isolate and interpret, one that tends to make
biological factors that hold this intrinsic capacity for the population increase from relatively low values or
population growth in check over the long run. The great decrease from relatively high ones, while the density-
variety of dynamic behaviors exhibited by different independent effects act to produce "noise" in the population
populations makes this task more difficult: some dynamics. For populations that remain relatively constant,
populations remain roughly constant from year to year; or that oscillate around repeated cycles, the signal can be
others exhibit regular cycles of abundance and scarcity; still fairly easily characterized and its effects described, even
others vary wildly, with outbreaks and crashes that are in though the causative biological mechanism may remain
some cases plainly correlated with the weather, and in other unknown. For irregularly fluctuating populations, we are
cases not. likely to have too few observations to have any hope of
To impose some order on this kaleidoscope of patterns,
extracting the signal from the overwhelming noise. But it
one school of thought proposes dividing populations into now seems clear that all populations are regulated by a
two groups. These ecologists posit that the relatively steady mixture of density- dependent and density-independent
populations have "density- dependent" growth parameters; effects in varying proportions.
that is, rates of birth, death, and migration which depend
strongly on population density. The highly varying
populations have "density-independent" growth parameters,
with vital, rates buffeted by environmental events; these
rates fluctuate in a way that is wholly independent of
population density.
This dichotomy has its uses, but it can cause problems
if taken too literally. For one thing, no population can be
driven entirely by density-independent factors all the time.
No matter how severely or unpredictably birth, death and
migration rates may be fluctuating around their long-term
averages, if there were no density-dependent effects, the
population would, in the long run, either increase or
decrease without bound (barring a miracle by which gains
and losses canceled exactly). Put another way, it may be
that on average 99 percent of all deaths in a population
arise from density-independent causes, and only one
percent from factors varying with density. The factors
making up the one percent may seem unimportant, and
their cause may be correspondingly hard to determine. Yet,
whether recognized or not, they will usually determine the
long-term average population density.
1347.The author of the passage is primarily concerned with
9.Which of the following statements can be inferred
(A) discussing two categories of factors that control
from the last paragraph?
population growth and assessing their relative
(A) For irregularly fluctuating populations, doubling
importance
the number of observations made will
(B) describing how growth rates in natural popula-
probably result in the isolation of density-
tions fluctuate over time and explaining why
dependent effects.
these changes occur
(B) Density-dependent effects on population
(C) proposing a hypothesis concerning population
dynamics do not occur as frequently as do
sizes and suggesting ways to test it
density-independent effects.
(D) posing a fundamental question about environ-
(C) At present, ecologists do not understand any
mental factors in population growth and pre- of the underlying causes of the density-
senting some currently accepted answers dependent effects they observe in population
(E) refuting a commonly accepted theory about
dynamics..
population density and offering a new alter-
(D) Density-dependent effects on growth parameters
native
are thought to be caused by some sort of
biochemical "signaling" that ecologists hope
8. Select the sentence in the passage that presents the
eventually to understand.
author's attitude toward the dichotomy discussed in the
(E) It is sometimes possible to infer the existence of
second paragraph.
a density-dependent factor controlling population
growth without understanding its
causative mechanism.
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
10. .According to the passage, all of the following
behaviors have been exhibited by different
populations
A roughly constant population levels from year to year
B regular cycles of increases and decreases in numbers
C erratic increases in numbers correlated with the
weather
135Exercise 24
1. The archaeologists' argument assumes which of the
Excavations at a Mayan site have uncovered jewelry
following about the artisans who worked in the
workshops located some distance from the center of the
workshops'
site on roads radiating outward from the center. Since the
nobility lived only in the area of the center, archaeologists
(A) They were themselves prosperous members of a
conclude that these workshops made jewelry, not for the
middle class.
nobility, but for a middle class that must have been
prosperous enough to afford it.
(B) They lived near their workshops.
(C) Their products were not made from the same
materials as was jewelry for the nobility.
(D) They worked full-time at making jewelry and did
not engage in farming
(E) They did not take the jewelry they had made in
the workshops to clients who were members of
the nobility.
136Practically speaking, the artistic maturing of the
2. Select the sentence in which the author asserts that
cinema was the single-handed achievement of David W. Griffith played an important role in the development of
Griffith (1875-1948). Before Griffith, photography in the cinema.
dramatic films consisted of little more than placing the
3. The author's attitude toward photography in the
actors before a stationary camera and showing them in
full length as they would have appeared on stage. From
cinema before Griffith can best be described as
the beginning of his career as a director, however, Griffith, (A) sympathetic
because of his love of Victorian painting, employed (B) nostalgic
composition. He conceived of the camera image as (C) amused
having a foreground and a rear ground, as well as the (D) condescending
middle distance preferred by most directors. By 1910 he (E) hostile
was using close-ups to reveal significant details of the
scene or of the acting and extreme long shots to achieve a
sense of spectacle and distance. His appreciation of the
camera's possibilities produced novel dramatic effects.
(131 words)
137Because of its accuracy in outlining the Earth's
For the following question, consider each of the
subsurface, the seismic-reflection method remains the most choices separately and select all that apply
important tool in the search for petroleum reserves. In field 4. According to the passage, in the seismic-reflection
practice, a subsurface is mapped by line arranging a series of method which of the following have a significant
wave-train sources, such as small dynamite explosions, in a effect on the signal detected by the seismic
grid pattern. As each source is activated, it generates a instruments
wave train that moves downward at a speed determined A presence of unrelated wave trains
uniquely by the rock's elastic characteristics. As rock B placement of the seismic instruments
interfaces are crossed, the elastic characteristics C properties of rocks through which the wave
encountered generally change abruptly, which causes part
train has traveled
of the energy to be reflected back to the surface, where it is
recorded by seismic instruments. The seismic records must
5. It can be inferred from the passage that the seismic-
be processed to correct for positional differences between reflection method would be likely to yield an inaccu-
the source and the receiver, for unrelated wave trains, and rate physical profile of the subsurface in which of
for multiple reflections from the rock interfaces. Then the the following circumstances?
data acquired at each of the specific source locations are (A) If the speed at which the wave train moved
combined to generate a physical profile of the subsurface,
downward changed
which can eventually be used to select targets for drilling.
(B) If the receiver were not positioned directly at
(162 words)
the wave-train source
(C) If the rock on one side of a rock interface had
similar elastic characteristics to those of the
rock on the other side
(D) If the seismic records obtained for the different
sources in a grid were highly similar to each other
(E) If there were no petroleum deposits beneath the
area defined by the grid of wave-train sources
6. Which of the following best describes the
organization of the passage?
(A) A method is criticized, and an alternative is
suggested.
(B) An illustration is examined, and some errors are
exposed.
(C) An assertion is made, and a procedure is
outlined.
(D) A series of examples is presented, and a
conclusion is drawn.
(E)
A hypothesis is advanced, and supporting
evidence is supplied.
138Paradoxically, with all of our natural, intuitive,
7. The author refers to people who are attracted to
commonsense capacity to grasp human relations, the "pessimistic, debunking writings" in order to support
science of human relations has been one of the last to which of the following ideas?
develop. Different explanations of this paradox have been (A) Interesting books about human relations are
suggested. One is that science would destroy the vain and
typically pessimistic.
pleasing illusions people have about themselves; but we
(B) People tend to ignore scientific explanations
might ask why people have always loved to read
of human relations.
pessimistic, debunking writings, from Ecclesiastes to
(C) People rarely hold pleasing illusions about
Freud. It has also been proposed that just because we
themselves.
know so much about people intuitively, there has been
(D) A scientific approach human relations
less incentive for studying them scientifically; why would undermine the pleasing illusions people
should one develop a theory, carry out systematic hold of themselves.
observations, or make predictions about the obvious?
(E) It is doubtful that the science of human relations
(107 words)
developed slowly because of a desire
to maintain pleasing illusions.
8. In the context in which it appears, "paradox" most
nearly means
A diametrical opposition
○
B unintended irony
○
C stark dichotomy
○
D exact counterpoint
○
E contradiction to common sense
○
139Why during sickness should body temperature of
9. According to the passage, Garibaldi determined
warm-blooded animal rise? It has long been known that the
which of the following?
level of serum iron in animals falls during infection.
(A) That serum iron is produced through microbial
Garibaldi first suggested a relationship between fever and
synthesis
iron. He found that microbial synthesis of siderophores --
(B) That microbial synthesis of siderophores in
substances that bind iron -- in bacteria of the genus warm-blooded animals is more efficient at
Salmonella declined at environmental temperatures above higher temperatures.
37°C and stopped at 40.3°C. Thus, fever would make it
(C) That only iron bound to other substances can
more difficult for an infecting bacterium to acquire iron and
be used by bacteria.
thus to multiply. Cold-blooded animals were used to test
(D) That there is a relationship between the
this hypothesis. Kluger reported that of iguanas infected synthesis of siderophores in bacteria of the genus
with the potentially lethal bacterium A. hydrophilia, more Salmonella and environmental temperature.
survived at temperatures of 42°C than at 37°C, even though
(E) That bacteria of the genus Salmonella require
healthy animals prefer the lower temperature. When
iron as a nutrient.
animals at 42°C were injected with an iron solution,
however, mortality rates increased significantly.
10. If it were to be determined that similar phenomena
(135 words)
occur in warm-blooded animals, which of the
following, assuming each is possible, is likely to be the
most effective treatment for warm-blooded animals
with bacterial infections?
(A) Administering a medication that lowers the
animals' body temperature
(B) Injecting the animals with an iron solution
(C) Administering a medication that makes serum
iron unavailable to bacteria
(D) Providing the animals with reduced-iron diets
(E) Keeping the animals in an environment with
temperatures higher than 37°C
140Exercise 25
Since 1953, many experimental attempts to synthesize
1. According to the passage, which of the following
the chemical constituents of life under "primitive Earth can be inferred about the process by which the
conditions" have demonstrated that a variety of the chemical constituents of life were synthesized under
complex molecules currently making up living organisms primitive Earth conditions?
could have been present in the early ocean and atmosphere,
(A) The synthesis is unlikely to occur under current
with only one limitation: such molecules are synthesized
atmospheric conditions
far less readily when oxygen-containing compounds (B) The synthesis is common in modern laboratories.
dominate the atmosphere. Therefore some scientists (C)The synthesis occurs more readily in the
postulate that the Earth's earliest atmosphere, unlike that of
atmosphere than in the ocean.
today, was dominated by hydrogen, methane, and ammonia.
(D)The synthesis easily produces the most complex
From these studies, scientists have concluded that the
organic molecules.
surface of the primitive Earth was covered with oceans
(E)The synthesis is accelerated by the presence of
containing the molecules fundamental to life. Although, at
oxygen-containing compounds.
present, scientists cannot explain how these relatively small
molecules combined to produce larger, more complex
2.It can be inferred from the passage that "some scien-
molecules, some scientists have precipitously ventured tists" assume which of the following concerning "
hypotheses that attempt to explain the development, from larger, more complex molecules"
lager molecules, of the earliest self-duplicating organisms.
(A) The earliest atmosphere was forward primarily
(138 words)
of these molecules.
(B) Chemical processes involving these molecules
proceeded much more slowly under primitive
Earth conditions.
(C) The presence of these molecules would necessarily
precede the existence of simple organisms.
(D) Experimental techniques will never be sufficiently
sophisticated to produce in the laboratory simple
organisms from these chemical constituents.
(E) Explanations could easily be developed to
explain how simple molecules combined to
form these more complex ones.
141It is frequently assumed that the mechanization of work
blue-collar work. Fundamentally, however, the conditions
has a revolutionary effect on the lives of the people who under which women work have changed little since before
operate the new machines and on the society into which the the Industrial Revolution: the segregation of occupations by
machines have been introduced. For example, it has been gender, lower pay for women as a group, jobs that require
suggested that the employment of women in industry took relatively low levels of skill and offer women little
them out of the household, their traditional sphere, and opportunity for advancement all persist, while women's
fundamentally altered their position in society. In the household labor remains demanding. Recent historical
nineteenth century, when women began to enter factories, investigation has led to a major revision of the notion that
Jules Simon, a French politician, warned that by doing so, technology is always inherently revolutionary in its effects
women would give up their femininity. Friedrich Engels, on society. Mechanization may even have slowed any
however, predicted that women would be liberated from the change in the traditional position of women both in the
"social, legal, and economic subordination" of the family by labor market and in the home.
technological developments that made possible the
recruitment of "the whole female sex into public industry."
Observers thus differed concerning the social desirability of
mechanization's effects, but they agreed that it would
transform women's lives.
Historians, particularly those investigating the history
of women, now seriously question this assumption of
transforming power. They conclude that such dramatic
technological innovations as the spinning jenny, the sewing
machine, the typewriter, and the vacuum cleaner have not
resulted in equally dramatic social changes in women's
economic position or in the prevailing evaluation of
women's work. The employment of young women in textile
mills during the Industrial Revolution was largely an
extension of an older pattern of employment of young,
single women as domestics. It was not the change in office
technology, but rather the separation of secretarial work,
previously seen as an apprenticeship for beginning
managers, from administrative work that in the 1880's
created a new class of "dead-end" jobs, thenceforth
considered "women's work." The increase in the numbers
of married women employed outside the home in the
twentieth century had less to do with the mechanization of
housework and an increase in leisure time for these women
than it did with their own economic necessity and with high
marriage rates that shrank the available pool of single
women workers, previously, in many cases, the only
women employers would hire.
Women's work has changed considerably in the past
200 years, moving from the household to the office or the
factory, and later becoming mostly white-collar instead of
1423.Which of the following statements best summarizes
For the following question, consider each of the
the main idea of the passage? choices separately and select all that apply
(A) The effects of the mechanization of women's 5. Which of the following statement about many
work have not borne out the frequently held employers before the twentieth century are NOT
assumption that new technology is inherently implied in the passage?
revolutionary.
(B) Recent studies have shown that mechanization
A They did not employ women in factories.
revolutionizes a society's traditional values
B They tended to employ single rather than married
and the customary roles of its members.
women.
(C) Mechanization has caused the nature of
C They hired women only when qualified men
women's work to change since the Industrial
were not available to fill the open positions.
Revolution.
(D) The mechanization of work creates whole new
6.Which of the following best describes the function of
classes of jobs that did not previously exist.
the concluding sentence of the passage?
(E) The mechanization of women's work, while
(A) It sums up the general points concerning the
extremely revolutionary it its effects, has not, mechanization of work made in the passage
on the whole, had the deleterious effects that as a whole.
some critics had feared.
(B) It draws a conclusion concerning the effects
of the mechanization of work which goes
4.It can be inferred front the passage that the author
beyond the evidence presented in the passage
would consider which of the following to be an indi-
as a whole.
cation of a fundamental alteration in the conditions
(C) It restates the point concerning technology
of women's work?
made in the sentence immediately preceding it.
(A) Statistics showing that the majority of women
(D) It qualifies the author's agreement with scholars
now occupy white-collar positions
who argue for a major revision in the assess
(B) Interviews with married men indicating that
ment of the impact of mechanization on society
they are now doing some household tasks
(E) It suggests a compromise between two seemingly
(C) Surveys of the labor market documenting the
contradictory views concerning the effects
recent creation of a new class of jobs in electronics
of mechanization on society.
in which women workers outnumber men four to
one
(D) Census results showing that working women's
wages and salaries are, on the average, as high as
those of working men
(E) Enrollment figures from universities demonstrating
that increasing numbers of young women are
choosing to continue their education beyond the
undergraduate level
143Over the last 40 years there has been a great increase not
7. Which of the following, if true. best explains how
only in the number of agricultural pesticides in use but also improvements in pesticide use have been
in the care and sophistication with which they are used by accompanied by greater losses to certain pests?
farmers. Nevertheless, the proportion of agricultural crops
(A) Some dangerous but relatively ineffective
lost to certain pests worldwide has increased over the same
pesticides common 40 years ago are no longer in
period, even when the pests concerned have not developed
resistance to existing pesticides.
widespread use.
(B) As pesticides have become increasingly pest-
specific, controlling certain pests with pesticides
has turned out to cost more in many cases than
the value of crop losses caused by those pests.
(C) Because today's pesticides typically have more
specific application conditions than did
pesticides in use 40 years ago, today's farmers
observe their fields more closely than did farmers
40 years ago.
(D) Certain pest-control methods that some farmers
use today do not involve the use of chemical
pesticides but are just as effective in eliminating
insect pests as those that do.
(E) Forty years ago, much less was known about the
effects of pesticides on humans and other
mammalian species than is now known.
144Researchers are finding that in many ways an individual
8.It can be inferred from the passage that cell differen-
bacterium is more analogous to a component cell of a tiation within Anabaena is regulated by the
multicellular organism than it is to a free-living, (A) amount of oxygen Anabaena cells produce
autonomous organism. Anabaena, a freshwater bacteria is a (B) season of the year
case in point. Among photosynthetic bacteria, Anabaena is (C) amount of fixed nitrogen compounds available
unusual: it is capable of both photosynthesis and nitrogen (D) number of microscopic channels uniting
fixation. Within a single cell, these two biochemical
Anabaena cells
processes are incompatible: oxygen produced during
(E) amount of chlorophyll in Anabaena cells
photosynthesis, inactivates the nitrogenase required for
nitrogen fixation. In Anabaena communities, however,
9.The author uses the example of Anabaena to illustrate
these processes can coexist. When fixed nitrogen the
compounds are abundant, Anabaena is strictly (A) uniqueness of bacteria among unicellular organ-
photosynthetic and its cells are all alike. When nitrogen
isms
levels are low, however, specialized cells called heterocysts (B) inadequacy of an existing view of bacteria
are produced which lack chlorophyll (necessary for (C) ability of unicellular organisms to engage in
photosynthesis) but which can fix nitrogen by converting
photosynthesis
nitrogen gas into a usable form. Submicroscopic channels (D) variability of a freshwater bacteria
develop which connect the heterocyst cells with the (E) difficulty of investigating even the simplest
photosynthetic ones and which are used for transferring
unicellular organisms
cellular products between the two kinds of Anabaena cells.
(156 words)
145Scholars often fail to see that music played an important
10. In the argument given , the two highlighted portions
role in the preservation of African culture in the United States.
play which of the following roles?
A The first sentence introduces the topic of the
○
They correctly note that slavery stripped some cultural
elements from Black people-their political and economic
passage and the last one summarizes the passage.
B The first sentence presents a thesis and the last one
○
systems-but they underestimate the significance of music in
sustaining other African cultural values. African music, unlike
further develops the thesis.
C
○
the music of some other cultures, was based on a total vision
of life in which music was not an isolated social domain. In
The first sentence summarizes the main idea of the
passage and the last one paraphrases it literally.
African culture music was pervasive, serving not only religion,
D
○
The first sentence presents a context for the
but all phases of life, including birth, death, work, and play. discussion of the passage and the last one
Music, like art in general, was so inextricably a part of African summarizes the discussion.
E The first sentence presents the negative thesis of the
○
culture that it became a crucial means of preserving the
culture during and after the dislocations of slavery.
passage and the last one presents the positive thesis.
(126 words)
146Exercise 26
1. Which of the following, if true, most strengthens the
authorities' argument?
Authorities in California required drivers to use their
headlights on a certain road during the daytime as well
(A) Because an alternate route became available, the
as at night and found that annual accident rates on the
volume of traffic on the test road decreased during
road fell 15 percent from the previous level. They
the test period.
concluded that applying the daytime rule statewide
(B) Drivers were informed of the requirement to use
would lead to a similar reduction in accidents.
their headlights on the test road by means of a
series of three conspicuous signs in each direction
of travel.
(C) Under certain conditions, among them fog and
heavy rain, most drivers in California already use
their headlights during the daytime.
(D) Full-scale application of the daytime rule would
cause headlight bulbs to burn out sooner than
they currently do and thus to require more
frequent replacement.
(E) The test road was selected to include a great
variety of the sorts of road conditions that drivers
in California are likely to encounter.
147It has long been known that during an El Nino, two
2. According to the passage, which of the following
conditions exist: (1) unusually warm water extends features is characteristic of an El Nino?
along the eastern Pacific, principally along the coasts of (A) Cold coastal water near Peru
Ecuador and Peru, and (2) winds blow from the west into (B) Winds blowing from the west
the warmer air rising over the warm water in the east. (C) Random occurrence
These winds tend to create a feedback mechanism by (D) Worldwide effects
driving the warmer surface water into a "pile" that blocks (E) Short duration
the normal upwelling of deeper, cold water in the east and
further warms the eastern water, thus strengthening the For the following question, consider each of the
wind still more. The contribution of the recent model is to choices separately and select all that apply
show that the winds of an El Nino, which raise sea level in 3. It can be inferred from the passage that which of
the cast, simultaneously send a signal to the west lowering the following would result fairly immediately from
sea level. According to the model, that signal is generated the cessation of the winds of an El Nino?
as a negative Rossby wave, a wave of depressed, or
negative, sea level, that moves westward parallel to the
A Negative Rossby waves would cease to be
equator at 25 to 85 kilometers per day.
generated in the eastern Pacific.
(158 words)
B The sea level in the eastern Pacific would fall.
C The surface water in the eastern Pacific would
again be cooled by being mixed with deep water.
148In a recent study, David Cressy examines two central
4. According to the passage, Cressy would agree with
questions concerning English immigration to New England which of the following statements about the orga-
in the 1630's: what kinds of people immigrated and why? nizers among the English immigrants to New
Cressy finds that most adult immigrants were skilled in England in the 1630's?
farming or crafts, were literate, and were organized in I. Most of them were clergy.
families. Each of these characteristics sharply distinguishes II. Some of them offered a religious explanation
the 21,000 people who left for New England in the 1630's
for their immigration.
from most of the approximately 377,000 English people
III. They did not offer any reasons for their
who had immigrating, to America by 1700.
immigration until some time after they
With respect to their reasons for immigrating, Cressy
had immigrated.
does not deny the frequently noted fact that some of the
IV. They were more likely than the average
immigrants of the 1630's, most notably the organizers and immigrant to be motivated by material
clergy, advanced religious explanations for departure, but considerations.
he finds that such explanations usually assumed primacy (A) I only
only in retrospect. When he moves beyond the principal (B) II only
actors, he finds that religious explanations were less (C) II and III only
frequently offered and he concludes that most people (D) I, III, and IV only
immigrated because they were recruited by promises of (E) II, III, and IV only
material improvement.
(155 words)
5.The passage suggests that the majority of those
English people who had immigrated to America
by the late seventeenth century were
(A) clergy
(B) young children
(C) organized in families
(D) skilled in crafts
(E) illiterate
149Traditionally, pollination by wind has been viewed as
scale-bract complexes on ovule-bearing pine cones, where
a reproductive process marked by random events in the female reproductive organs of conifers are located, is
which the vagaries of the wind are compensated for by important to the production of airflow patterns that spiral
the generation of vast quantities of pollen, so that the over the cone's surfaces, thereby passing airborne pollen
ultimate production of new seeds is assured at the from one scale to the next. However, these patterns
expense of producing much more pollen than is actually cannot be viewed as an adaptation to wind pollination
used. Because the potential hazards pollen grains are because the spiral arrangement occurs in a number of
subject to as they are transported over long distances are non-wind-pollinated plant lineages and is regarded as a
enormous, wind-pollinated plants have, in the view above, characteristic of vascular plants, of which conifers are
compensated for the ensuing loss of pollen through only one kind, as a whole. Therefore, the spiral
happenstance by virtue of producing an amount of pollen arrangement is not likely to be the result of a direct
that is one to three orders of magnitude greater than the adaptation to wind pollination.
amount produced by species pollinated by insects.
(453 words)
However, a number of features that are characteristic
of wind-pollinated plants reduce pollen waste. For
example, many wind-pollinated species fail to release
pollen when wind speeds are low or when humid
conditions prevail. Recent studies suggest another way in
which species compensate for the inefficiency of wind
pollination. These studies suggest that species frequently
take advantage of the physics of pollen motion by
generating specific aerodynamic environments within the
immediate vicinity of their female reproductive organs. It
is the morphology of these organs that dictates the pattern
of airflow disturbances through which pollen must travel.
The speed and direction of the airflow disturbances can
combine with the physical properties of a species' pollen
to produce a species-specific pattern of pollen collision on
the surfaces of female reproductive organs. Provided that
these surfaces are strategically located, the consequences
of this combination can significantly increase the
pollen-capture efficiency of a female reproductive organ.
A critical question that remains to be answered is
whether the morphological attributes of the female
reproductive organs of wind-pollinated species are
evolutionary adaptations to wind pollination or are merely
fortuitous. A complete resolution of the question is as yet
impossible since adaptation must be evaluated for each
species within its own unique functional context.
However, it must be said that, while evidence of such
evolutionary adaptations does exist in some species, one
must be careful about attributing morphology to
adaptation. For example, the spiral arrangement of
1506.The author of the passage is primarily concerned
8. The passage suggests that the recent studies cited in the
with discussing
second paragraph have not done which of the following?
(A) the current debate on whether the morphological
(A) Made any distinctions between different species
attributes of wind-pollinated plants are
of wind-pollinated plants.
evolutionary adaptations
(B) Considered the physical properties of the pollen
(B) the kinds of airflow patterns that permit wind-
that is produced by wind-pollinated plants.
pollinated plants to capture pollen most effi-
(C) Indicated the general range within which plant-
ciently
generated airflow disturbances are apt to
(C) the ways in which the reproductive processes of
occur.
wind-pollinated plants are controlled by
(D) Included investigations of the physics of pollen
random events
motion and its relationship to the efficient
(D) a recently proposed explanation of a way in
capture of pollen by the female reproductive
which wind-pollinated plants reduce pollen
organs of wind-pollinated plants.
waste
(E) Demonstrated that the morphological attributes
(E) a specific morphological attribute that permits of the female reproductive organs of wind-
one species of wind-pollinated plant to pollinated plants are usually evolutionary
capture pollen adaptations to wind pollination.
7. According to the passage, the "aerodynamic
9. It can be inferred from the passage that the claim
environments" mentioned in the second paragraph, that the spiral arrangement of scale-bract complexes
when they are produced, are primarily determined by on an ovule-bearing pine cone is an adaptation to
the wind pollination would be more convincing if which
(A) presence of insects near the plant of the following were true?
(B) physical properties of the plant's pollen (A) Such an arrangement occurred only in wind-
(C) shape of the plant's female reproductive organs
pollinated plants.
(D) amount of pollen generated by the plant
(B) Such an arrangement occurred in vascular
(E) number of seeds produced by the plant
plants as a whole.
(C) Such an arrangement could be shown to be
beneficial to pollen release.
(D) The number of bracts could be shown to have
increased over time.
(E) The airflow patterns over the cone's surfaces
could be shown to be produced by such
arrangements.
151Isadora Duncan's masterly writings on the dance reveal
10. Select the sentence in the passage that implies the
the depth of her determination to create a lyric form of the art argumentative function which the author mentions
which was free of characterization, storytelling, and the Duncan's reliance on music in her recitals to serve.
theatrical exhibition of skills. She wished to discard the
traditional methods and established vocabularies of such dance
forms as ballet and to explore the internal sources of human
expressiveness. She shunned bodily ornamentation and
strove to use only the natural movements of her body,
undistorted by acrobatic exaggeration and stimulated only by
internal compulsion. In her recitals Duncan danced to the music
of Beethoven, Wagner, and Gluck, among others, but,
contrary to popular belief, she made no attempt to visualize or
to interpret the music; rather, she simply relied on it to provide
the inspiration for expressing inner feelings through movement.
(130 words)
152Exercise 27
The more that is discovered about the intricate
1. Which of the following best describes the organization
organization of the nervous system, the more it seems of the paragraph?
remarkable that genes can successfully specify the (A) A specific case is presented, its details are
development of that system. Human genes contain too
analyzed, and a conclusion is drawn from it.
little information even to specify which hemisphere of the
(B) A discovery is announced, its most significant
10
brain each of a human's 10 neurons should occupy, let application is discussed, and possibilities for
alone the hundreds of connections that each neuron the future are suggested.
makes. For such reasons, we can assume that there must
(C) A generalization is made, specific situations in
be an important random factor in neural development, and which it is applicable are noted, and problems
in particular, that errors must and do occur in the with it are suggested.
development of all normal brains.
(D) An observation is made, specifics are provided
(93 words)
to support it, and a generalization is derived.
(E) A hypothesis is presented, its implications are
clarified, and applications of it are discussed.
153Some recent historians have argued that life in the
Having said this, however, one must add that there is
British colonies in America from approximately 1763 to much evidence to support the further claim of recent
1789 was marked by internal conflicts among colonists. historians that sectional conflicts were common between
Inheritors of some of the viewpoints of early twentieth- 1763 and 1789. The "Paxton Boys" incident and the
century Progressive historians such as Beard and Becker, Regulator movement are representative examples of the
these recent historians have put forward arguments that widespread, and justified, discontent of western settlers
deserve evaluation. against colonial or state governments dominated by
The kind of conflict most emphasized by these
eastern interests. Although undertones of class conflict
historians is class conflict. Yet with the Revolutionary existed beneath such hostility, the opposition was
War dominating these years, how does one distinguish primarily geographical. Sectional conflict ---which also
class conflict within that larger conflict? Certainly not by existed between North and South ---deserves further
the side a person supported. Although many of these investigation.
historians have accepted the earlier assumption that In summary, historians must be careful about the kind
Loyalists represented an upper class, new evidence of conflict they emphasize in eighteenth-century America.
indicates that Loyalists, like rebels, were drawn from all Yet those who stress the achievement of a general
socioeconomic classes. (It is nonetheless probably true consensus among the colonists cannot fully understand
that a larger percentage of the well-to-do joined the that consensus without understanding the conflicts that
Loyalists than joined the rebels.) Looking at the rebel side, had to be overcome or repressed in order to reach it.
we find little evidence for the contention that lower-class
(461 words)
rebels were in conflict with upper-class rebels. Indeed,
the war effort against Britain tended to suppress class
conflicts. Where it did not, the disputing rebels of one or
another class usually became Loyalists. Loyalism thus
operated as a safety valve to remove socioeconomic
discontent that existed among the rebels. Disputes
occurred, of course, among those who remained on the
rebel side, but the extraordinary social mobility of
eighteenth-century American society (with the obvious
exception of slaves) usually prevented such disputes from
hardening along class lines. Social structure was in fact so
fluid --- though recent statistics suggest a narrowing of
economic opportunity as the latter half of the century
progressed --- that to talk about social classes at all
requires the use of loose economic categories such as rich,
poor, and middle class, or eighteenth-century designations
like "the better sort." Despite these vague categories, one
should not claim unequivocally that hostility between
recognizable classes cannot be legitimately observed.
Outside of New York, however, there were very few
instances of openly expressed class antagonism.
1542.The author most likely refers to "historians such as
For the following question, consider each of the
Beard and Becker" in the first paragraph in order to
choices separately and select all that apply
(A) isolate the two historians whose work is most
4. The passage suggests that the author would be likely
representative of the viewpoints of Progressive to agree with which of the following statements
historians about the social structure of eighteenth-century
(B) emphasize the need to find connections between
American society?
recent historical writing and the work of
A It allowed greater economic opportunity than it did
earlier historians
social mobility.
(C) make a case for the importance of the views
B It permitted greater economic opportunity prior to 1750
of the Progressive historians concerning
than after 1750.
eighteenth-century American life
C It did not contain rigidly defined socioeconomic
(D) suggest that Progressive historians were the first
divisions.
to discover the particular internal conflicts in
eighteenth-century American life mentioned
5.The author suggests which of the following about
in the passage
the representativeness of colonial or state govern-
(E) point out historians whose views of history
ments in America from 1763 to 1789 ?
anticipated some of the views of the recent
(A) The governments inadequately represented the
historians mentioned in the passage
interests of people in western regions.
(B) The governments more often represented class
3.According to the passage, Loyalism during
interests than sectional interests.
the American Revolutionary War served the
(C)The governments were less representative than
function of
they had been before 1763 .
(A) eliminating the disputes that existed among
(D)The governments were dominated by the interests
those colonists who supported the rebel cause
of people of an upper socioeconomic class.
(B) drawing upper, as opposed to lower, socio-
(E) The governments of the northern colonies were
economic classes away from the rebel cause
less representative than were the governments
(C) tolerating the kinds of socioeconomic discontent
of the southern colonies.
that were not allowed to exist on the rebel side
(D) channeling conflict that existed within a socio-
economic class into the war effort against the
rebel cause
(E) absorbing members of socioeconomic groups
on the rebel side who felt themselves in
contention with members of other socio-
economic groups
1556. Despite a dramatic increase in the number of people
Which of the following, if true during the last three years,
riding bicycles for recreation in Parkville. a recent
best reconciles the apparent discrepancy in the facts
report by the Parkville Department of Transportation
above?
shows that the number of accidents involving
bicycles has decreased for the third consecutive year.
(A) The Parkville Department of Recreation
confiscated abandoned bicycles and sold them at
auction to any interested Parkville residents.
(B) Increased automobile and bus traffic in Parkville
has been the leading cause of the most recent
increase in automobile accidents.
(C) Because of the local increase in the number of
people bicycling for recreation. many out -of
-town bicyclists ride in the Parkville area.
(D) The Parkville Police Department enforced traffic
rules for bicycle riders much more vigorously
and began requiring recreational riders to pass a
bicycle safety course.
(E) The Parkville Department of Transportation
canceled a program that required all bicycles to
be inspected and registered each year.
156The Earth's magnetic field is generated as the molten
7.In the passage, the author is primarily concerned with
iron of the Earth's outer core revolves around its solid
(A) analyzing a complicated scientific phenomenon
inner core; when surges in the molten iron occur, magnetic
and its impact on the Earth's surface features
tempests are created. At the Earth's surface, these tempests
(B) describing a natural phenomenon and the
can be detected by changes in the strength of the Earth's
challenges its study presents to researchers
magnetic field. For reasons not fully understood, the field
(C) discussing a scientific field of research and the
itself reverses periodically every million years or so.
gaps in researchers' methodological
Clearly, geophysicists who seek to explain and forecast
approaches to it
changes in the field must understand what happens in the
(D) comparing two distinct fields of physical science
outer core. Unlike meteorologists, however, they cannot and the different research methods employed
rely on observations made in their own lifetimes. Whereas in each
atmospheric storms arise in a matter of hours and last for
(E) proposing an explanation for a geophysical
days, magnetic tempests develop over decades and persist for phenomenon and an experiment that could help
centuries. confirm that explanation
(121 words)
8. Select the sentence in the passage that implies the
reason why geophysicists seeking to explain magnetic
tempests ought to conduct research on the Earth's outer
core.
157In The Women of Mexico City, 1796-1857, Sylvia 9. It can be inferred from the passage that Arrom
Marina Arrom argues that the status on women in Mexico would agree with which of the following
City improved during the nineteenth century. According assertions?
to Arrom, households headed by females and instances of
(A) Efforts by the Mexican government to
women working outside the home were much more encourage education for women during the
common than scholars have estimated; efforts by the nineteenth century were hampered by the
Mexican government to encourage female education economic instability of that period.
resulted in increased female literacy; and influential male
(B) The most significant advances in the rights
writers wrote pieces advocating education, employment, of Mexican women during the nineteenth
and increased family responsibilities for women, while century occurred prior to 1857.
deploring women's political and marital inequality.
(C) Improvements in the status of women in Mexico
Mention of the fact that the civil codes of 1870 and 1884 City during the nineteenth century were
significantly advanced women's rights would have further accompanied by similar improvements in the
strengthened Arrom's argument. status of women in other large Latin American
Arrom does not discuss whether women's improved
cities.
status counteracted the effects on women of instability in
(D) Scholars have in the past accorded the most
the Mexican economy during the nineteenth century. significance to nineteenth-century Mexican
However, this is not so much a weakness in her work as it literature that supported the status quo in
is the inevitable result of scholars' neglect of this period. women's political and marital rights.
Indeed, such gaps in Mexican history are precisely what (E) Scholars have in the past underestimated the
make Arrom's pioneering study an important addition to number of households headed by females in
Latin American women's history. Mexico City.
(172 words)
10. Which of the following best describes the author's
attitude toward Arrom's work?
(A) Uncritical approval
(B) Enthusiasm tempered by minor reservations
(C) Praise for her thesis, despite skepticism
regarding the sources of her evidence
(D) Reluctant acceptance, despite lingering doubts
regarding the accuracy of her thesis
(E) Rejection, despite admiration for her attempt to
break new ground in a hitherto neglected field
158Exercise 28
For women feminist literary critic, the subjectivity 2.Which of the following is presented by the author
versus objectivity, or critic-as-artist-or-scientist, debate has in support of the suggestion that there is stereo-
special political significance, and her definition will court typic thinking among members of the academic
special risks whichever side of the issue it favors. If she establishment?
defines feminist criticism as objective and scientific, the (A) A distinctively feminist contribution to
definition precludes the critic-as-artist approach and may humanistic understanding could work
impede accomplishment of the utilitarian political against the influence of sexism among
objectives of those who seek to change the academic members of the academic establishment.
establishment. If she defines feminist criticism as creative
(B) Women who define criticism as artistic may
and intuitive, privileged as art, then her work becomes
be seen by the academic establishment as
vulnerable to the prejudices of stereotypic ideas about the
being incapable of critical thinking.
ways in which women think, and will be dismissed by
(C) The debate over the role of the literary critic
much of the academic establishment.
is often seen as a political one.
These questions are political in the sense that the
(D) Women scholars are only now entering
debate over them will inevitably be less an exploration of academia in substantial numbers.
abstract matters in a spirit of disinterested inquiry than an (E) The woman who is a critic is forced to
academic power struggle in which the careers and
construct a theory of literary criticism.
professional fortunes of many women scholars -- only now
entering the academic profession in substantial numbers --
3 .It can be inferred that the author would define as
will be at stake, and with them the chances for a distinctive " political" questions (in the second paragraph) that
contribution to humanistic understanding, a contribution (A) are contested largely through contentions over
that might be an important influence against sexism in our
power
society.
(B) are primarily academic in nature and open to
(186 words)
abstract analysis
For the following question, consider each of the (C) are not in themselves important
choices separately and select all that apply (D) cannot be resolved without extensive debate
1. The author specifically mentions all of the following (E) will be debated by both men and women
as difficulties that particularly affect women who
are theoreticians of feminist literary criticism
A tendency of a predominantly male academic
establishment to form preconceptions about women
B limitations that are imposed when criticism
is defined as objective and scientific
C likelihood that the work of a woman theoretician
who claims the privilege of art will be viewed
with prejudice by some academics
159What causes a helix in nature to appear with either a
genetic predisposition. In the European pond snail
dextral("right-handed, "or clockwise) twist or a sinistral Lymnaea peregra, a predominantly dextral species whose
("left-handed," or counterclockwise) twist is one of the handedness is maternally determined, a brood might be
most intriguing puzzles in the science of form. Most expected to be exclusively right- or left-handed-and this
spiral-shaped snail species are predominantly dextral. But often occurs. However, some broods possess a few snails
at one time, handedness (twist direction of the shell) was of the opposing hand, and in predominantly sinistral
equally distributed within some snail species that have broods, the incidence of dextrality is surprisingly high.
become predominantly dextral or, in a few species,
Here, the evolutionary theory must defer to a theory
predominantly sinistral. What mechanisms, control based on an explicit developmental mechanism that can
handedness and keep left-handedness rare? favor either right- or left-handedness. In the case of
It would seem unlikely that evolution should
Lymnaea peregra, studies indicate that a dextral gene is
discriminate against sinistral snails if sinistral and dextral expressed during egg formation; i.e., before egg
snails are exact mirror images, for any disadvantage that a fertilization, the gene produces a protein, found in the
sinistral twist in itself could confer on its possessor is cytoplasm of the egg, that controls the pattern of cell
almost inconceivable. But left- and right-handed snails division and thus handedness. In experiments, an
are not actually true mirror images of one another. Their injection of cytoplasm from dextral eggs changes the
shapes are noticeably different. Sinistral rarity might, then, pattern of sinistral eggs, but an injection from sinistral
be a consequence of possible disadvantages conferred by eggs does not influence dextral eggs. One explanation for
these other concomitant structural features. In addition, the differing effects is that all Lymnaea peregra eggs
perhaps left- and right-handed snails cannot mate with begin left-handed but most switch to being right-handed.
each other, having incompatible twist directions. Thus, the path to a solution to the puzzle of handedness in
Presumably an individual of the rarer form would have all snails appears to be as twisted as the helix itself.
relative difficulty in finding a mate of the same hand, thus
(472 words)
keeping the rare form rare or creating geographically
separated right- and left-handed populations.
But this evolutionary mechanism combining
dissymmetry, anatomy, and chance does not provide an
adequate explanation of why right-handedness should
have become predominant. It does not explain, for
example, why the infrequent unions between snails of
opposing hands produce fewer offspring of the rarer than
the commoner form in species where each parent
contributes equally to handedness. Nor does it explain
why, in a species where one parent determines
handedness,a brood is not exclusively right- or
left-handed when the offspring would have the same
1604. The second paragraph of the passage is primarily
6. According to the passage, which of the following is
concerned with offering possible reasons why true of Lymnaea peregra?
(A) it is unlikely that evolutionary mechanisms (A) Handedness within the species was at one time
could discriminate against sinistral snails equally distributed between left and right.
(B) sinistrality is relatively uncommon among snail (B) Under laboratory conditions, dextral eggs from
species
Lymnaea peregra can be artificially induced
(C) dextral and sinistral populations of a snail
to develop into sinistral snails.
species tend to intermingle
(C) Broods of Lymnaea peregra are, without varia-
(D) a theory based on a developmental mechanism
tion, exclusively sinistral or dextral.
inadequately accounts for the predominance
(D) Handedness in Lymnaea peregra offspring is
of dextrality across snail species
determined by two parents together.
(E) dextral snails breed more readily than sinistral
(E) fewer sinistral offspring in dextral broods than
snails, even within predominantly sinistral
dextral offspring in sinistral broods
populations
7. Which of the following accurately describes the
5. In describing the "evolutionary mechanism" (the first
relationship between the evolutionary and
sentence of the third paragraph), the author mentions
developmental theories discussed in the passage?
which of the following?
(A) Although the two theories reach the same
(A) The favorable conditions for nurturing new
conclusion, each is based on different
offspring
assumptions.
(B) The variable environmental conditions that
(B) They present contradictory explanations of the
affect survival of adult snails
same phenomenon.
(C) The availability of potential mates for breeding
(C) The second theory accounts for certain
(D) The structural identity of offspring to parents of
phenomena that the first cannot explain.
the same hand
(D) The second theory demonstrates why the first is
(E) The frequency of unions between snails of
valid only for very unusual, special cases.
different species
(E) They are identical and interchangeable in that
the second theory merely restates the first in
less technical terms.
161Martin Luther King's role in the movement protesting 8.Select the sentence in the passage in which the author
the war in Vietnam appears to require little explanation, indicates a reason for the delay of King's public protest
since he was the foremost advocate of nonviolence of his against the war.
time. But King's stance on the Vietnam War cannot be
explained in terms of pacifism alone. After all, he was
something of a latecomer to the antiwar movement, even
though by 1965 he was convinced that the role of the
United States in the war was indefensible. Why then the
two years that passed before he translated his private
misgivings into public dissent? Perhaps he believed that
he could not criticize American foreign policy without
endangering the support for civil rights that he had won
from the federal government.
(116 words)
1629. Which of the following is an assumption on which
An economist concluded that Kregg Company
the economist's argument depends?
deliberately discriminated against people with a
history of union affiliation in hiring workers for its
(A) None of the people with a history of union
new plant. The economist's evidence is that, of the affiliation who were hired to work at the new
1,500 people hired to work at the new plant, only 100 plant were union organizers.
had ever belonged to a labor union, whereas in Kregg (B) Applicants for jobs at the new plant were not
Company's older plants, a much higher proportion of
workers have a history of union affiliation. asked by Kregg's recruiters whether they had
ever belonged to a labor union.
(C) In the plants of some of Kregg's competitors, the
workforce consists predominantly of union
members.
(D) The company believes that the cost of running
the new plant will be lower if labor unions are
not represented in the workforce.
(E) The pool of potential candidates for jobs at the
new plant included some people, in addition to
those Kregg hired, with a history of union
affiliation.
163Quantum mechanics is a highly successful theory: it
10. It can be inferred from the passage that the author's
supplies methods for accurately calculating the results of conclusion that Einstein's approach is "erroneous"
diverse experiments, especially with minute particles. The might have to be modified because
predictions of quantum mechanics, however, give only the (A) it is theoretically possible to generate plausible
probability of an event, not a deterministic statement of
theories with hidden parameters within them
whether or not the event will occur. Because of this
(B) some experimental tests of Einstein's theory do
probabilism, Einstein remained strongly dissatisfied with not disconfirm the hidden-parameter theory
the theory throughout his life, though he did not maintain of quantum mechanics
that quantum mechanics is wrong. Rather, he held that it is
(C) it is possible for a theory to have hidden
incomplete: in quantum mechanics the motion of a particle
parameters and yet be probabilistic
must be described in terms of probabilities, he argued, only
(D) traditional quantum mechanics has not yet been
because some parameters that determine the motion have used to analyze all of the phenomena to
not been specified. Einstein's ideas have been tested by which it could be applied
experiments performed since his death, and as most of
(E) there are too many possible hidden parameters
these experiments support traditional quantum mechanics, to develop meaningful tests of hidden-
Einstein's approach is almost certainly erroneous. parameter theories
(134 words)
164Exercise 29
Analyzing the physics of dance can add fundamentally
1.The primary purpose of the passage is to
to a dancer's skill. Although dancers seldom see themselves
(A) initiate a debate over two approaches to
totally in physical terms -- as body mass moving through
analyzing a field of study
space under the influence of well-known forces and
(B) describe how one field of knowledge can be
obeying physical laws -- neither can they afford to ignore
applied to another field
the physics of movement. Some movements involving
(C) point out the contradictions between two distinct
primarily vertical or horizontal motions of the body as a
theories
whole, in which rotations can be ignored, can be studied
(D) Define and elaborate on an accepted scientific
using simple equations of linear motion in three dimensions.
principle
However, rotational motions require more complex
(E) discuss the application of a new theory within
approaches that involve analyses of the way the body's
a new setting
mass is distributed, the axes of rotation involved in
different types of movement, and the sources of the forces For the following question, consider each of the
that produce the rotational movement. choices separately and select all that apply
(120 words)
2.The author mentions all of the following as contributing
to an understanding of the physics of dance
A analyses of the way in which the body's mass
is distributed
B equations of linear motion in three dimensions
C analyses of the sources that produce rotational
motions
165Which of the following, if true, most seriously weakens
3. Hastings' contracture is a disorder of the connective
the argument?
tissue in one or both hands, most commonly causing
loss of mobility. A survey of thousands of
(A) The medical-insurance claims did not specie
medical-insurance claims found that over 30 percent whether the surgery was on the patient's right or
of people who had one hand operated on for Hastings' left hand.
contracture underwent surgery a second time for this
(B) The surgical techniques used to treat Hastings'
disorder within three years. Clearly, therefore, a contracture are identical to those used
single surgical treatment of Hastings' contracture is successfully to treat certain work-related injuries
often ineffective at providing long-term correction of to the hand.
the disorder.
(C) A separate survey found that 90 percent of
patients operated on for Hastings' contracture
report increased hand mobility within one month
after the surgery.
(D) All of the patients in the survey were required by
their insurance companies to seek a second
opinion from a qualified surgeon before
undergoing the operation.
(E) Many people who have Hastings' contracture
choose to tolerate its effects rather than undergo
the risks of surgery.
166The Fourteenth Amendment to the United States
4.The author implies that the Fourteenth Amendment
Constitution, ratified in 1868, prohibits state governments might not have been enacted if
from denying citizens the "equal protection of the laws." (A) Congress' authority with regard to legislating
Although precisely what the framers of the amendment
civil rights had not been challenged
meant by this equal protection clause remains unclear, all
(B) the framers had anticipated the Supreme Court's
interpreters agree that the framers' immediate objective was
ruling in Brown v. Board of Education
to provide a constitutional warrant for the Civil Rights Act
(C) the framers had believed that it would be used in
of 1866, which guaranteed the citizenship of all persons
deciding cases of discrimination involving
born in the United States and subject to United States
non-racial groups
jurisdiction. This declaration, which was echoed in the text
(D) most state governments had been willing to
of the Fourteenth Amendment, was designed primarily to
protect citizens' civil rights
counter the Supreme Court's ruling in Dred Scott v. Sandford
(E) its essential elements had not been implicit in the
that Black people in the United States could be denied
Thirteenth Amendment
citizenship. The act was vetoed by President Andrew Johnson,
who argued that the Thirteenth Amendment, which abolished
5.According to the passage, which of the following
slavery, did not provide Congress with the authority to extend most accurately indicates the sequence of the events
citizenship and equal protection to the freed slaves. listed below ?
Although Congress promptly overrode Johnson's veto,
I. Civil Rights Act of 1866
supporters of the act sought to ensure its constitutional
II. Dred Scott v. Sandford
foundations with the passage of the Fourteenth Amendment.
III. Fourteenth Amendment
(172 words)
IV. Veto by President Johnson
(A) I, II, III, IV
(B) I, IV, II, III
(C) I, IV, III, II
(D) II, I, IV, III
(E) III, II, I, IV
6. In the context in which it appears, "overrode" most
nearly means
A trampled
○
B extended
○
C annulled
○
D neutralized
○
E compromised
○
167Many organisms are capable of altering their habitat
7.It can be inferred from the passage that which of the
significantly, sometimes limiting their own growth. The followings is true about Asterionella plants in Lake
influence of the biological component of an ecosystem is Windermere?
often greater in fresh waters that in marine or terrestrial (A) They are not present except in early spring.
systems, because of the small size of many freshwater (B) They contribute silica to the waters as they grow.
bodies. Many of the important effects of organisms are (C) They are food for other organisms.
related to their physiology, especially growth and (D) They form a silica-rich layer on the lake
respiration. By their growth many species can deplete
bottom.
essential nutrients within the system, thus limiting their
(E) Their growth peaks in the spring.
own growth or that of other species. Lund has demonstrated
that in Lake Windermere the alga Asterionella is unable to
8. Select the sentence in the passage that indicates certain
grow in conditions that it itself has created. Once a year, in
causes of the alteration of organisms to their habitat.
the spring, this plant starts to grow rapidly in the lake,
using up so much silica from the water that by late spring
there is no longer enough to maintain its own growth. The
population decreases dramatically as a result. (147 words)
168Design courses should be an essential element in
9.The author calls the predicament faced by the
engineering curricula. Because perceptive processes are not Historic American Engineering Record "para-
assumed to entail "hard thinking," nonverbal thought is doxical" most probably because
sometimes seen as a primitive stage in the development of (A) the publication needed drawings that its own
cognitive processes and inferior to verbal or mathematical
staff could not make
thought. But it is paradoxical that when the staff of the (B) architectural schools offered but did not require
Historic American Engineering Record wished to have engineering design courses for their students
drawings made of machines and isometric views of
(C) college students were qualified to make the
industrial processes for its historical record of American
drawings while practicing engineers were not
engineering, the only college students with the requisite
(D) the drawings needed were so complicated that
abilities were not engineering students, but rather students even students in architectural schools had
attending architectural schools. difficulty making them.
If courses in design, which in a strongly analytical
(E) engineering students were not trained to make
engineering curriculum provide the background required the type of drawings needed to record the
for practical problem-solving, are not provided, we can development of their own discipline
expect to encounter silly but costly errors occurring in
advanced engineering systems. For example, early models
10.The author uses the example of the early models of
of high-speed railroad cars loaded with sophisticated high-speed railroad cars primarily to
controls were unable to operate in a snowstorm because a (A) weaken the argument that modern engineering
fan sucked snow into the electrical system.
(157 words)
systems have major defects because of an
absence of design courses in engineering
curricula
(B) support the thesis that the number of errors in
modern engineering systems is likely to
increase
(C) illustrate the idea that courses in design are the
most effective means for reducing the cost of
designing engineering systems
(D) support the contention that a lack of attention to
the nonscientific aspects of design results in
poor conceptualization by engineers
(E) weaken the proposition that mathematics is a
necessary part of the study of design
169Exercise 30
Sex-defined protective laws have often been based on
1. According to the author, which of the following
stereotypical assumptions concerning women's needs and resulted from the passage or revival of state laws
abilities, and employers have frequently used them as legal limiting the work hours of women workers?
excuses for discriminating against women. After the Second
(A) Women workers were compelled to leave their jobs in
World War, for example, businesses and government sought
factories.
to persuade women to vacate jobs in factories, thus making
(B) Many employers had difficulty in providing jobs for
room in the labor force for returning veterans. The revival
returning veterans.
or passage of state laws limiting the daily or weekly work
(C) Many employers found it hard to attract women
hours of women conveniently accomplished this. Employers
workers.
had only to declare that overtime hours were a necessary (D) The health of most women factory workers improved.
condition of employment or promotion in their factory, and (E) Employment practices that addressed the real needs of
women could be quite legally fired, refused jobs, or kept at
women workers became common.
low wage levels, all in the name of "protecting" their health.
At the same time, even the most well- intentioned
2. The author places the word "protecting" in quotation
lawmakers, courts, and employers have often been blind to
marks most likely in order to suggest that
the real needs of women. The lawmakers and the courts
(A) she is quoting the actual wording of the laws in
continue to permit employers to offer employee health
question
insurance plans that cover all known human medical
(B) the protective nature of the laws in question
disabilities except those relating to pregnancy and childbirth.
should not be overlooked
(170 words)
(C) protecting the health of workers is important to
those who support protective labor laws
(D) the laws in question were really used to the
detriment of women workers, despite being
overtly protective in intent
(E) the health of workers is not in need of protection,
even in jobs where many hours of overtime work
are required
170If the statements given are true, it can be properly
3.A society can achieve a fair distribution of resources
concluded from them that
only under conditions of economic growth. There can
be no economic growth unless the society guarantees (A) no government can achieve a fair distribution of
equality of economic opportunity to all of its citizens. resources under conditions of economic growth
Equality of economic opportunity cannot be
(B) all societies that guarantee equality of economic
guaranteed unless a society's government actively opportunity to all of their members are societies
works to bring it about. that distribute resources fairly
(C) a society can achieve a fair distribution of
resources only if its government actively works
to bring about equality of economic opportunity
(D) there can be no economic growth in a society
unless that society guarantees a fair distribution
of resources
(E) some societies that experience economic growth
fail to guarantee equality of opportunity to all of
their citizens
171The sweep of narrative in A. N. Wilson's biography of C. S.
5.The author of the passage would be most likely to
Lewis is impressive and there is much that is acute and well agree with which of the following statements regarding
argued. But much in this work is careless and unworthy of its Till We Have Faces?
author. Wilson, a novelist and an accomplished biographer, (A) It is an improvement over the Eros and Psyche
has failed to do what any writer on such a subject as Lewis
story on which it is based.
ought to do, namely work out a coherent view of how the
(B) It illustrated Lewis' attempt to involve his readers
various literary works by the subject are to be described and
emotionally in the story of Eros and Psyche.
commented on. Decisions have to be made on what to look at
(C) It was more highly regarded by Wilson than by
in detail and what to pass by with just a mention. Wilson has
Lewis himself.
not thought this problem out. For instance, Till We Have
(D) It is one of the outstanding literary achievements
Faces, Lewis' treatment of the Eros and Psyche story and one
of Lewis' career.
of his best-executed and most moving works, is merely
(E) It is probably one of the most popular of Lewis'
mentioned by Wilson, though it illuminates Lewis' spiritual
works.
development, whereas Lewis' minor work Pilgrim's Regress is
looked at in considerable detail.
(156 words)
6.Which of the following best describes the organization
of the passage?
For the following question, consider each of the
(A) An evaluation is made, and aspects of the evaluation
choices separately and select all that apply
are expanded on with supporting evidence.
4.The author of the passage implies that Wilson's
(B) A theory is proposed, and supporting examples are
examination of Pilgrim's Regress
provided.
A was disproportionately long relative to the amount of (C) A position is examined, analyzed, and rejected.
effort Lewis devoted to writing Pilgrim's Regress (D) A contradiction is described, then the points of
B was more extensive than warranted because of the
contention are evaluated and reconciled.
relative unimportance of Pilgrim's Regress
(E) Opposing views are presented and evaluated, then
C is not as coherent as his treatment of Till We Have
modifications are advocated.
Faces
172The two claws of the mature American lobster are
8.It can be inferred that of the two laboratory
decidedly different from each other. The crusher claw is environments mentioned in the passage, the one with
short and stout; the cutter claw is long and slender. This oyster chips was designed to
bilateral asymmetry begins to appear in the juvenile sixth (A) prove that the presence of oyster chips was not
stage of development. One possible explanation is that necessary for the development of a crusher
differential use of the claws determines their asymmetry; claw.
the claw that is used more becomes the crusher.
(B) prove that the relative length of time that the
To test this hypothesis, researchers raised lobsters in the
lobsters were exposed to the oyster-chip
juvenile fourth and fifth stages of development in a environment had little impact on the development
laboratory environment in which the lobsters could of a crusher claw
manipulate oyster chips. Under these conditions, the
(C) eliminate the environment as a possible influence
lobsters developed asymmetric claws, half with crusher
in the development of a crusher claw
claws on the left, and half with crusher claws on the right. (D) control on which side the crusher claw develops
In contrast, when juvenile lobsters were reared in a smooth (E) simulate the conditions that lobsters encounter
tank without the oyster chips, the majority developed two
in their natural environment
cutter claws. This unusual configuration of symmetrical
cutter claws did not change when the lobsters were
9.Which of the following conditions does the
subsequently placed in a manipulatable environment or passage suggest is a possible cause for the failure
when they lost and regenerated one or both claws. of a lobster to develop a crusher claw?
(165 words)
(A) The loss of a claw during the third or earlier
stage of development
7.The passage is primarily concerned with
(B) The loss of a claw during the fourth or fifth
(A) drawing an analogy between asymmetry in
stage of development
lobsters and handedness in humans
(C) The loss of a claw during the sixth stage of
(B) developing a method for predicting whether
development
crusher claws in lobsters will appear on the
(D) Development in an environment devoid of material
left or right side
that can be manipulated
(C) explaining differences between lobsters'
(E) Development in an environment that changes
crusher claws and cutter claws
frequently throughout the stages of development
(D) discussing a possible explanation for the way
bilateral asymmetry is determined in lobsters
(E) summarizing the stages of development of the
lobster
173(A) the physicists, using a different method for
10. Which of the following, if true, most logically
estimating how many neutrinos should reach the
completes the passage?
location, confirmed their original estimate
(B) there are several competing hypotheses about the
Every fusion reaction releases neutrinos. To test a
frequency of solar fusion reactions
hypothesis about the frequency of fusion reactions in the
(C) there is not enough energy in the Sun to destroy a
Sun, physicists calculated the number of neutrinos the
neutrino once it is released
Sun would produce annually if the hypothesis were
(D) the method used to count neutrinos detects no
correct. From this they estimated how many neutrinos
more than approximately ten percent of the
should pass through a particular location on Earth. The
neutrinos that pass through
fact that far fewer neutrinos were counted than were
(E) neutrinos released in the fusion reactions of other
predicted to pass through the location would seem to
prove that the hypothesis is wrong, except that------.
stars also reach the Earth
174Exercise 31
1.
Which of the following, if true, most strengthens the
High Towers, a company that occupies several office
argument given?
buildings, is considering installing new energy-
efficient lightbulbs in its buildings. The new bulbs
(A) If the new bulbs are widely adopted, as seems
require less than half the electricity consumed by the likely, they will be produced in large enough
conventional bulbs currently used to produce the quantities to be offered at prices comparable to
same amount of light. The new bulbs also last those of conventional bulbs.
considerably longer. It follows that by replacing old
(B) The utility that supplies High Towers with
bulbs as they bum out with the new kind of bulb, electricity offers discount rates to its largest
High Towers would significantly reduce its overall
lighting costs. customers.
(C) High Towers has recently signed a contract to
occupy an additional small office building.
(D) High Towers has begun a campaign to encourage
its employees to turn off lights whenever they
leave a room.
(E) The company that manufactures the new bulbs
has been granted a patent on the innovative
technology used in the bulbs and thus has
exclusive rights to manufacture them.
175The defoliation of millions of acres of trees by massive
Further research has shown that caterpillars become
infestations of gypsy moth caterpillars is a recurring virtually immune to the wilt virus as the trees on which
phenomenon in the northeastern United States. In studying they feed respond to increasing defoliation. The trees' own
these outbreaks, scientists have discovered that affected defenses raise the threshold of caterpillar vulnerability to
trees fight back by releasing toxic chemicals, mainly the disease, allowing populations to grow denser without
phenols, into their foliage. These noxious substances limit becoming more susceptible to infection. For these reasons,
caterpillars' growth and reduce the number of eggs that the benefits to the caterpillars of ingesting phenols appear
female moths lay. Phenols also make the eggs smaller, to outweigh the costs. Given the presence of the virus, the
which reduces the growth of the following year's trees' defensive tactic apparently has backfired.
caterpillars. Because the number of eggs a female moth
(446 words)
produces is directly related to her size, and because her
size is determined entirely by her feeding success as a
caterpillar, the trees' defensive mechanism has an impact
on moth fecundity.
The gypsy moth is also subject to attack by the
nucleopolyhedrosis virus, or wilt disease, a particularly
important killer of the caterpillars in outbreak years.
Caterpillars contract wilt disease when they eat a leaf to
which the virus, encased in a protein globule, has become
attached. Once ingested by a caterpillar, the protein
globule dissolves, releasing thousands of viruses, or
virions, that after about two weeks multiply enough to fill
the entire body cavity. When the caterpillar dies, the
virions are released to the outside, encased in a new
protein globule synthesized from the caterpillar's tissues
and ready to be picked up by other caterpillars.
Knowing that phenols, including tannins, often act by
associating with and altering the activity of proteins,
researchers focused on the effects on caterpillars of
ingesting the virus and leaves together. They found that
on tannin-rich oak leaves, the virus is considerably less
effective at killing caterpillars than when it is on aspen
leaves, which are lower in phenols. In general, the more
concentrated the phenols in tree leaves, the less deadly the
virus. Thus, while highly concentrated phenols in tree
leaves reduce the caterpillar population by limiting the size
of caterpillars and, consequently, the size of the female's
egg cluster, these same chemicals also help caterpillars
survive by disabling the wilt virus. Forest stands of red
oaks, with their tannin-rich foliage, may even provide
caterpillars with safe havens from disease. In stands
dominated by trees such as aspen, however, incipient gypsy
moth outbreaks are quickly suppressed by viral epidemics.
1762. It can be inferred from the passage that wilt disease
4. Select the sentence in the passage that the author uses
virions depend for their survival on as a supporting idea to explicate how gypsy moth
(A) protein synthesized from the tissues of a host caterpillars become immune to the wilt virus.
caterpillar
(B) aspen leaves with high concentrations of phenols For the following question, consider each of the
(C) tannin-rich oak leaves choices separately and select all that apply
(D) nutrients that they synthesize from gypsy moth 5.Which of the following statements about gypsy moth
egg clusters
caterpillars is supported by information presented in
(E) a rising threshold of caterpillar vulnerability to
the passage EXCEPT?
wilt disease
A Differing concentrations of phenols in leaves have
differing effects on the ability of the wilt virus to
3.Which of the following best describes the function of
kill gypsy moth caterpillars.
the third paragraph of the passage?
B Female gypsy moth caterpillars stop growing after
(A) It resolves a contradiction between the ideas
they ingest leaves containing phenols.
presented in the first and second paragraphs.
C The longer a gypsy moth population is exposed to
(B) It introduces research data to support the theory
wilt disease, the greater the likelihood that the
outlined in the second paragraph.
gypsy moth caterpillars will become immune to
(C) It draws a conclusion from conflicting evidence
the virus.
presented in the first two paragraphs.
(D) It shows how phenomena described in the first
and second paragraphs act in combination.
(E) It elaborates on the thesis introduced in the first
paragraph after a digression in the second
paragraph.
177Although a historical lack of access to formal Spanish-
6.According to the author, the Chicano oral experience
language education initially limited the opportunities of contributed directly to which of the following
some Chicanos to hone their skills as writers of Spanish, characteristics in the work of some Chicano writers?
their bilingual culture clearly fostered an exuberant and (A) A sensitivity to and adeptness in using the
compelling oral tradition. It has thus generally been by way
spoken language
of the emphasis on oral literary creativity that these
(B) A tendency to appear in national rather than
Chicano writers, whose English-language works are
regional publications
sometimes uninspired, developed the powerful and
(C) A style reflecting the influence of Spanish
arresting language that characterized their Spanish-
language education
language works. This Spanish-English difference is not (D) A reliance on a rather formal style
surprising. When writing in Spanish, these authors stayed (E) A capacity to appeal to a broad range of audiences
close to the spoken traditions of their communities. Works
in English, however, often required the elimination of
7. Which of the following best characterizes the function
nuance or colloquialism, the adoption of a formal tone, and of the indicated portion (the last two sentences) of the
the adjustment of themes or ideas to satisfy the different passage ?
demands of national publications.
(127 words)
(A) They expand on an advantage mentioned in the
first sentence of the passage.
(B) They outline the consequences of a limitation
discussed in the first sentence of the passage.
(C) They provide explicit examples drawn from
the oral and the written works mentioned in the
second sentence of the passage.
(D) They explain the causes of a phenomenon
mentioned in the third sentence of the passage.
(E) They limit the applicability of a generalization
made in the third sentence of the passage.
178In medical tomography x-rays map the human body's
8.Which of the following, if presented as the first
density variations (and hence internal organs); the sentence of a succeeding paragraph, would most
information from the x-rays, transmitted through the body logically continue the discussion presented in the
along many different paths, is recombined to form three- passage?
dimensional images of the body's interior. It is primarily
(A) Timekeeping in medical tomography must be
this multiplicative increase in data obtained from the precise because the changes in travel time caused
multipath transmission of signals that accounts for by density fluctuations are slight.
oceanographers' attraction to tomography.
(B) To understand how ocean acoustic tomography
Researchers reasoned that low-frequency sound waves,
works, it is necessary to know how sound
because they are so well described mathematically and
travels in the ocean.
because even small perturbations in emitted sound waves
(C) Ships are another possibility. but they would
can be detected, could be transmitted through the ocean need to stop every 50 kilometers to lower
over many different paths and that the properties of the measuring instruments.
ocean's interior could be deduced on the basis of how the
(D) These variations amount to only about 2 to 3
ocean altered the signals. Their initial trials were highly percent of the average speed of sound in water,
successful, and ocean acoustic tomography was born. which is about 1,500 meters per second.
(128 words)
(E) The device used in medical tomography emits a
specially coded signal, easily distinguishable
from background noise
179Ironically, now that photography is securely 9.Which of the following adjectives best describes
established as a fine art, many photographers find it ―the concept of art imposed by the triumph of
pretentious or irrelevant to label it as such. Serious Modernism‖ as the author represents it in the last sentence?
photographers variously claim to be finding, recording, (A) Objective
impartially observing, witnessing events, exploring (B) Mechanical
themselves-anything but making works of art. In the (C) Superficial
nineteenth century, photography's association with the (D) Dramatic
real world placed it in an ambivalent relation to art; late in (E) Paradoxical
the twentieth century, an ambivalent relation exists
because of the Modernist heritage in art. That important
10. In the context in which it appears, "ambivalent " most
photographers are no longer willing to debate whether
nearly means
photography is or is not a fine art, except to proclaim that
their own work is not involved with art, shows the extent A subversive
○
to which they simply take for granted the concept of art B unambiguous
○
imposed by the triumph of Modernism: the better the art, C equivocal
○
the more subversive it is of the traditional aims of art. D disreputable
○
E contradictory
○
(142 words)
180Exercise 32
The recent change to all-volunteer armed forces in the
For the following question, consider each of the
United States will eventually produce a gradual increase in choices separately and select all that apply
the proportion of women in the armed forces and in the 1. The passage implies that which of the following is a
variety of women's assignments, but probably not the factor conducive to a more equitable representation
dramatic gains for women that might have been expected. of women in the United States armed forces than
This is so even though the armed forces operate in an ethos has existed in the past?
of institutional change oriented toward occupational
equality and under the federal sanction of equal pay for
A The all-volunteer character of the present
equal work. The difficulty is that women are unlikely to be
armed forces
trained for any direct combat operations; a significant
B The past service records of women who had
portion of the larger society remains uncomfortable as yet assignments functionally equivalent to men's
with extending equality in this direction. Therefore, for assignments
women in the military, the search for equality will still be
C Restrictive past policies governing the military
based on functional equivalence, not identity or even
similarity of task.
assignments open to women
(132 words)
181About a century ago, the Swedish physical scientist
molecules, such as interstellar formaldehyde, in dark clouds
Arrhenius proposed a law of classical chemistry that relates of interstellar dust. Afterward complex organic molecules
chemical reaction rate to temperature. According to the would be formed, slowly but surely, by means of tunneling.
Arrhenius equation, chemical reaction are increasingly After I offered my hypothesis, Hoyle and Wickramasinghe
unlikely to occur as temperatures approach absolute zero, argued that molecules of interstellar formaldehyde have
and at absolute zero (zero degrees Kelvin, or minus 273 indeed evolved into stable polysaccharides such as
degrees Celsius) reactions stop. However, recent cellulose and starch. Their conclusions, although strongly
experimental evidence reveals that although the Arrhenius disputed, have generated excitement among investigators
equation is generally accurate in describing the kind of such as myself who are proposing that the galactic clouds
chemical reaction that occurs at relatively high are the places where the prebiological evolution of
temperatures, at temperatures closer to zero a quantum- compounds necessary to life occurred.
mechanical effect known as tunneling comes into play; this
effect accounts for chemical reactions that are forbidden by
the principles of classical chemistry. Specifically, entire
molecules can "tunnel" through the barriers of repulsive
forces from other molecules and chemically react even
though these molecules do not have sufficient energy,
according to classical chemistry, to overcome the repulsive
barrier.
The rate of any chemical reaction, regardless of the
temperature at which it takes place, usually depends on a
very important characteristic known as its activation energy.
Any molecule can be imagined to reside at the bottom of a
so-called potential well of energy. A chemical reaction
corresponds to the transition of a molecule from the bottom
of one potential well to the bottom of another. In classical
chemistry, such a transition can be accomplished only by
going over the potential barrier between the wells, the
height of which remains constant and is called the
activation energy of the reaction. In tunneling, the reacting
molecules tunnel from the bottom of one to the bottom of
another well without having to rise over the barrier between
the two wells. Recently researchers have developed the
concept of tunneling temperature: the temperature below
which tunneling transitions greatly outnumber Arrhenius
transitions, and classical mechanics gives way to its
quantum counterpart.
This tunneling phenomenon at very low temperatures
suggested my hypothesis about a cold prehistory of life: the
formation of rather complex organic molecules in the deep
cold of outer space, where temperatures usually reach only
a few degrees Kelvin. Cosmic rays (high-energy protons
and other particles) might trigger the synthesis of simple
1822.According to the passage, classical chemical reactions and
4.Which of the following best describes the hypothesis
tunneling reactions are alike in which of the following of Hoyle and Wickramasinghe as it is presented in the
ways? passage?
(A) In both types of reactions, reacting molecules have to rise
(A) Cosmic rays can directly synthesize complex
over the barrier between the two wells.
organic molecules.
(B) In both types of reactions, a transition is made from
(B) The galactic clouds are the places where prebio-
the bottom of one potential well to the bottom of logical evolution of compounds necessary to life
another. occurred.
(C) In neither type of reaction does the height of the
(C) Interstellar formaldehyde can be synthesized by
barrier between the wells remain constant.
tunneling.
(D) In neither type of reaction does the rate of a chemical
(D) Molecules of interstellar formaldehyde can evolve
reaction depend on its activation energy.
into complex organic molecules.
(E) In both types of reactions, reacting molecules are able
(E) Complex organic molecules can be synthesized
to go through the barrier between the two wells.
from stable polysaccharides such as cellulose and
starch.
3.The author's hypothesis concerning the cold prehistory
of life would be most weakened if which of the following 5.Which of the following best describes the organization
were true? of the first two paragraphs of the passage?
(A)Cosmic rays are unlikely to trigger the formation of (A) The author cites a basic principle of classical
simple molecules.
chemistry and then describes the research from
(B)Tunneling occurs only in a narrow band of
which that principle was developed.
temperatures around zero degrees Kelvin.
(B) The author cites an apparent contradiction to
(C)The synthesis of interstellar formaldehyde can be
the principles of classical chemistry and then
activated by means other than cosmic rays.
explains the process of a chemical reaction to
(D)Simple molecules can be synthesized by means of
show there is in fact no contradiction.
tunneling.
(C) the author describes the role of heat in chemical
(E)Classical chemical reactions do not occur at
reactions and then offers a detailed explanation
temperatures close to absolute zero.
of its function.
(D) The author presents a law of classical chemistry in
order to introduce a kind of chemical reaction
that differs from it and then explains the essential
difference between the two.
(E) The author presents the fundamental rules of classical
chemistry in order to introduce an explanation of a
specific chemical reaction.
183One explanation for the tendency of animals to be more
6. It can be inferred from the passage that in species in
vigilant in smaller groups than in larger ones assumes that the which vigilant behavior is directed at predators, the
vigilant behavior-looking up, for example-is aimed at tendency of the animals to be more vigilant in
predators. If individuals on the edge of a group are more vigilant smaller groups than in larger ones would most likely
because they are at greater risk of being captured, then be minimized if which of the following were true?
individuals on average would have to be more vigilant in
(A) The vigilance of animals on the periphery of a group
smaller groups, because the animals on the periphery of a group always exceeded that of animals located in its interior,
form a greater proportion of the whole group as the size of the even when predators were not in the area.
group diminishes.
(B) The risk of capture for individuals in a group was the
However, a different explanation is necessary in cases where
same, whether they were located in the interior of the
the vigilant behavior is not directed at predators. J. Krebs has
group or on its periphery.
discovered that great blue herons look up more often when in
(C) Animals on the periphery of a group tended to be less
smaller flocks than when in larger ones, solely as a consequence capable of defending themselves from attack by predators
of poor feeding conditions. Krebs hypothesizes that the herons than animals located in the interior of the group.
in smaller flocks are watching for herons that they might follow
(D) Animals on the periphery of a group tended to bear
to better feeding pools, which usually attract larger numbers of marks that were more distinctive to predators than
the birds. animals located in the interior of the group.
(162 words)
(E) Animals on the periphery of a group tended to have
shorter life spans than animals located in the interior of the
group.
For the following question, consider each of the
choices separately and select all that apply
7.The passage provides information in support of
which of the following assertions EXCEPT?
A Similar behavior in different species of animals
does not necessarily serve the same purpose.
B Vigilant behavior aimed at predators is seldom
more beneficial to groups of animals than to
individual animals.
C The avoidance of predators is more important to
an animal's survival than is the quest for food.
184Which of the following, if justifiably assumed, allows
8. The painter Peter Brandon never dated his works, and
the conclusion to be properly drawn?
their chronology is only now beginning to take shape
in the critical literature. A recent dating of a Brandon (A) There is no securely dated self-portrait of Brandon
self-portrait to 1930 is surely wrong. Brandon was 63 that he painted when he was significantly younger
years old in 1930, yet the painting shows a young, than 63.
dark-haired man-obviously Brandon, but clearly not a
man of 63.
(B) In refraining from dating his works, Brandon
intended to steer critical discussion of them away
from considerations of chronology.
(C) Until recently, there was very little critical
literature on the works of Brandon.
(D) Brandon at age 63 would not have portrayed
himself in a painting as he had looked when he
was a young man.
(E) Brandon painted several self-portraits that showed
him as a man past the age of 60.
185This is not to deny that the Black gospel music of the 9.The author mentions "folk fashion" most likely in order to
early twentieth century differed in important ways from the (A) counter an assertion about the role of improvi-
slave spirituals. Whereas spirituals were created and
sation in music created by Black people
disseminated in folk fashion, gospel music was composed,
(B) compare early gospel music with gospel music
published, copyrighted, and sold by professionals.
written later in the twentieth century
Nevertheless, improvisation remained central to gospel music.
(C) make a distinction between gospel music and
One has only to listen to the recorded repertoire of gospel
slave spirituals
songs to realize that Black gospel singers rarely sang a song
(D) introduce a discussion about the dissemination of
precisely the same way twice and never according to its exact
slave spirituals
musical notation. They performed what jazz musicians call
(E) describe a similarity between gospel music and
"head arrangements" proceeding from their own feelings and
slave spirituals
from the way "the spirit" moved them at the time. This
improvisatory element was reflected in the manner in which
gospel music was published.
10.Of the following sentences, which is most likely to
(122 words)
have immediately preceded the passage?
(A) Few composers of gospel music drew on traditions
such as the spiritual in creating their songs.
(B) Spirituals and Black gospel music were derived
from the same musical tradition.
(C) The creation and singing of spirituals, practiced by
Black Americans before the Civil War, continued
after the war.
(D) Spirituals and gospel music can be clearly
distinguished from one another.
(E) Improvisation was one of the primary characteristics
of the gospel music created by Black musicians.
186Exercise 33
Writing of the Iroquois nation, Smith has argued that
1. It can be inferred that the author of the passage
through the chiefs' council, tribal chiefs traditionally regards Smith's argument as
maintained complete control over the political affairs of (A) provocative and potentially useful, but flawed
both the Iroquois tribal league and the individual tribes
by poor organization
belonging to the league, whereas the sole jurisdiction over (B) eloquently presented, but needlessly inflammatory
religious affairs resided with the shamans. He contended (C) accurate in some of its particulars, but inaccurate
that this division was maintained until the late nineteenth
with regard to an important point.
century. However, Smith fails to recognize that this division
(D) historically sound, but overly detailed and
of power between the tribal chiefs and shamans was not
redundant
actually rooted in Iroquois tradition; rather, it resulted from
(E) persuasive in its time, but now largely outdated
the Iroquois' resettlement on reservations early in the
nineteenth century. Prior to resettlement, the chiefs' council
2. The author of the passage implies that which of the
controlled only the broad policy of the tribal league; following occurred after the Iroquois were resettled
individual tribes had institutions― most important, the on reservations early in the nineteenth century?
longhouse― to govern their own affairs. In the longhouse, (A) Chiefs became more involved in their tribes'
the tribe's chief influenced both political and religious
religious affairs.
affairs.
(B) The authority of the chiefs' council over the
(137 words)
affairs of individual tribes increased.
(C) The political influence of the Iroquois shamans
was diminished.
(D) individual tribes coalesced into the Iroquois
tribal league.
(E) The longhouse because a political rather than a
religious institution.
187Over the years, biologists have suggested two main
territory, also failed to correlate with song complexity.
pathways by which sexual selection may have shaped the
The confirmation researchers had been seeking was
evolution of male birdsong. In the first, male competition finally achieved in studies involving two varieties of
and intrasexual selection produce relatively short, simple warblers. Unlike the song sparrow, which repeats one of its
songs used mainly in territorial behavior. In the second, several song types in bouts before switching to another, the
female choice and intersexual selection produce longer, warbler continuously composes much longer and more
more complicated songs used mainly in mate attraction; variable songs without repetition. For the first time,
like such visual ornamentation as the peacock's tail, researchers found a significant correlation between
elaborate vocal characteristics increase the male's chances repertoire size and early mating, and they discovered
of being chosen as a mate, and he thus enjoys more further that repertoire size had a more significant effect
reproductive success than his less ostentatious rivals. The than any other measure of male quality on the number of
two pathways are not mutually exclusive, and we can young produced. The evidence suggests that warblers use
expect to find examples that reflect their interaction. their extremely elaborate songs primarily to attract females,
Teasing them apart has been an important challenge to clearly confirming the effect of intersexual selection on the
evolutionary biologists. evolution of birdsong.
Early research confirmed the role of intrasexual
(462 words)
selection. In a variety of experiments in the field, males
responded aggressively to recorded songs by exhibiting
territorial behavior near the speakers. The breakthrough for
research into intersexual selection came in the development
of a new technique for investigating female response in the
laboratory. When female cowbirds raised in isolation in
soundproof chambers were exposed to recordings of male
song, they responded by exhibiting mating behavior. By
quantifying the responses, researchers were able to
determine what particular features of the song were most
important. In further experiments on song sparrows,
researchers found that when exposed to a single song type
repeated several times or to a repertoire of different song
types, females responded more to the latter. The beauty of
the experimental design is that it effectively rules out
confounding variables; acoustic isolation assures that the
female can respond only to the song structure itself.
If intersexual selection operates as theorized, males
with more complicated songs should not only attract
females more readily but should also enjoy greater
reproductive success. At first, however, researchers doing
fieldwork with song sparrows found no correlation between
larger repertoires and early mating, which has been shown
to be one indicator of reproductive success; further,
common measures of male quality used to predict
reproductive success, such as weight, size, age, and
1883. The passage is primarily concerned with
5. The passage indicates that researchers raised female
(A) showing that intrasexual selection has a greater
cowbirds in acoustic isolation in order to
effect on birdsong than does intersexual selection
(A) eliminate confounding variables
(B) contrasting the role of song complexity in several
(B) approximate field conditions
species of birds
(C) measure reproductive success
(C) describing research confirming the suspected
(D) quantify repertoire complexity
relationship between intersexual selection and the
(E) prevent early mating
complexity of birdsong
(D) demonstrating the superiority of laboratory work
6. According to the passage, the song sparrow is unlike
over field studies in evolutionary biology
the warbler in that the song sparrow
(E) illustrating the effectiveness of a particular
(A) uses songs mainly in territorial behavior
approach to experimental design in evolutionary (B) continuously composes long and complex songs
biology (C) has a much larger song repertoire
(D) repeats one song type before switching to another
4.The author mentions the peacock's tail in the first
(E) responds aggressively to recorded songs
paragraph most probably in order to
(A) cite an exception to the theory of the relationship
between intrasexual selection and male competition
(B) illustrate the importance of both of the pathways
that shaped the evolution of birdsong
(C) draw a distinction between competing theories of
intersexual selection
(D) give an example of a feature that may have evolved
through intersexual selection by female choice
(E) refute a commonly held assumption about the role
of song in mate attraction
189Which of the following, if true, most seriously challenges
the mayor's argument?
7.Mayor: Four years ago when we reorganized the city
police department in order to save money, critics
(A) When city police are perceived as unresponsive,
claimed that the reorganization would make the police
victims of theft are less likely to report thefts to
less responsive to citizens and would thus lead to more
the police.
crime. The police have compiled theft statistics from
(B) The mayor's critics generally agree that police
the years following the reorganization that show that
statistics concerning crime reports provide the
the critics were wrong. There was an overall decrease
in reports of thefts of all kinds, including small thefts.
most reliable available data on crime rates.
(C) In other cities where police departments have been
similarly reorganized, the numbers of reported
thefts have generally risen following
reorganization.
(D) The mayor's reorganization of the police
department failed to save as much money as it was
intended to save.
(E) During the four years immediately preceding the
reorganization, reports of all types of theft had
been rising steadily in comparison to reports of
other crimes.
190The term "remote sensing" refers to the techniques of
8. Select the sentence in the passage that implies a major
measurement and interpretation of phenomena from a disadvantage of photographic imaging in geologic
distance. Prior to the mid-1960's the interpretation of film mapping.
images was the primary means for remote sensing of the
Earth's geologic features. With the development of the
optomechanical scanner, scientists began to construct digital
multispectral images using data beyond the sensitivity range of
visible light photography. These images are constructed by
mechanically aligning pictorial representations of such
phenomena as the reflection of light waves outside the visible
spectrum, the refraction of radio waves, and the daily changes
in temperature in areas on the Earth's surface. The advantage
of digital over photographic imaging is evident: the resulting
numerical data are precisely known, and digital data are not
subject to the vagaries of difficult-to- control chemical
processing.
191For many years, Benjamin Quarles' seminal account of
10.Which of the following is most analogous to the
the participation of African Americans in the American relationship between the African American
Revolution has remained the standard work in the field. Revolutionary War participants who settled in Canada
According to Quarles, the outcome of this conflict was mixed after the American Revolution and the American
for African American slaves who enlisted in Britain's fight revolutionaries, as that relationship is described in the
against its rebellious American colonies in return for the passage?
promise of freedom: the British treacherously resold many (A) A brilliant pupil of a great musician rebels
into slavery in the West Indies, while others obtained
against the teacher, but adopts the teacher's
freedom in Canada and Africa. Building on Quarles' analysis
musical style after the teacher's unexpected death.
of the latter group, Sylvia Frey studied the former slaves who
(B) Two warring rulers finally make peace after a
emigrated to British colonies in Canada. According to Frey, lifetime of strife when they realize that they
these refugees -- the most successful of the African American have been duped by a common enemy.
Revolutionary War participants -- viewed themselves as the
(C) A child who has sided with a domineering
ideological heirs of the American Revolution. Frey sees this parent against a defiant sibling later makes
inheritances reflected in their demands for the same rights demands of the parent similar to those once
that the American revolutionaries had demanded from the made by the sibling.
British: land ownership, limits to arbitrary authority and (D) A writer spends much of her life popularizing
burdensome taxes, and freedom of religion. (157 words) the work of her mentor, only to discover late in
life that much of the older writer's work is
9.Which of the following can be inferred from the
plagiarized from the writings of a foreign
passage concerning Britain's rule in its Canadian
contemporary.
colonies after the American Revolution?
(E) Two research scientists spend much of their
(A) Humiliated by their defeat by the Americans, the British
careers working together toward a common
sharply curtailed civil rights in their Canadian colonies.
goal, but later quarrel over which of them should
(B) The British largely ignored their Canadian colonies. receive credit for the training of a promising
(C) The British encouraged the colonization of Canada by student.
those African Americans who had served on the
American side as well as by those who had served on
the British side.
(D) Some of Britain's policies in its Canadian colonies
were similar to its policies in its American colonies
before the American Revolution.
(E) To reduce the debt incurred during the war, the British
imposed even higher taxes on the Canadian colonists
than they had on the American colonists.
192Exercise 34
Only an effective collaboration between filmmakers and
1.The passage suggests that a filmmaker desiring to
art historians can create films that will enhance viewers' enhance viewers' perceptions of art should do which of
perceptions of art. Filmmakers need to resist the impulse to the following?
move the camera quickly from detail to detail for fear of (A) Rely on the precise language of art history when
boring the viewer, to frame the image for the sake of drama
developing scripts for films on art.
alone, to add music for fear of silence. Filmmakers are
(B) Rely on dramatic narrative and music to set a
aware that an art object demands concentration and, at the
film's tone and style.
same time, are concerned that it may not be compelling
(C) Recognize that a work of art by itself can be
enough―and so they hope to provide relief by interposing
compelling enough to hold a viewer's attention
"real" scenes that bear only a tangential relationship to the
(D) Depend more strongly on narration instead of
subject. But a work of art needs to be explored on its own
camera movements to guide the viewer's gaze.
terms. On the other hand, art historians need to trust that
(E) Emphasize the social and the historical contexts
one can indicate and analyze, not solely with words, but also
within which works of art have been created.
by directing the viewer's gaze. The specialized written
language of art history needs to be relinquished or at least
tempered for the screen.
2.According to the passage, art historians desiring to
(158 words)
work with filmmakers to enhance the public's
appreciation of art need to acknowledge which of the
following?
(A) The art historian's role in the creation of a film on
art is likely to be a relatively minor one.
(B) Film provides an ideal opportunity to acquaint
viewers with a wide range of issues that relate
incidentally to a work of art.
(C) An in-depth analysis of a work of art is not an
appropriate topic for a film on art.
(D) Although silence may be an appropriate back-
ground when viewing a work of art in a
museum, it is inappropriate in a film.
(E) Film can use nonverbal means to achieve some of
the same results that a spoken or written discourse
can achieve.
193As people age, their cells become less efficient and less able
people age), researchers studied the effect of glucose on
to replace damaged components. At the same time their tissues solutions of purified crystallin, the major protein in the lens of
stiffen. For example, the lungs and the heart muscle expand less the eye. Glucose-free solutions remained clear, but solutions
successfully, the blood vessels become increasingly rigid, and with glucose caused the proteins to form clusters, suggesting
the ligaments and tendons tighten. that the molecules had become cross-linked. The clusters
Few investigators would attribute such diverse effects to a
diffracted light, making the solution opaque. The researchers
single cause. Nevertheless, researchers have discovered that a also discovered that the pigmented cross-links in human
process long known to discolor and toughen foods may also cataracts have the brownish color and fluorescence
contribute to age- related impairment of both cells and tissues. characteristic of AGE's. These data suggest that
That process is nonenzymatic glycosylation, whereby glucose nonenzymatic glycosylation of lens crystallins may
becomes attached to proteins without the aid of enzymes. When contribute to cataract formation.
enzymes attach glucose to proteins (enzymatic glycosylation),
they do so at a specific site on a specific protein molecule for a
specific purpose. In contrast, the nonenzymatic process adds
glucose haphazardly to any of several sites along any available
peptide chain within a protein molecule.
This nonenzymatic glycosylation of certain proteins has
been understood by food chemists for decades, although few
biologists recognized until recently that the same steps could
take place in the body. Nonenzymatic glycosylation begins
when an aldehyde group (CHO) of glucose and an amino group
(NH2) of a protein are attracted to each other. The molecules
combine, forming what is called a Schiff base within the protein.
This combination is unstable and quickly rearranges itself into a
stabler, but still reversible, substance known as an Amadori
product.
If a given protein persists in the body for months or years,
some of its Amadori products slowly dehydrate and rearrange
themselves yet again, into new glucose-derived structures.
These can combine with various kinds of molecules to form
irreversible structures named advanced glycosylation end
products (AGE's). Most AGE's are yellowish brown and
fluorescent and have specific spectrographic properties. More
important for the body, many are also able to cross-link adjacent
proteins, particularly ones that give structure to tissues and
organs. Although no one has yet satisfactorily described the
origin of all such bridges between proteins, many investigators
agree that extensive cross-linking of proteins probably
contributes to the stiffening and loss of elasticity characteristic
of aging tissues.
In an attempt to link this process with the development of
cataracts (the browning and clouding of the lens of the eye as
194
(454 words)For the following question, consider each of the
5. Which of the following best describes the function
choices separately and select all that apply of the third paragraph of the passage?
3. According to the passage, which of the following (A) It offers evidence that contradicts the findings
is NOT characteristic of enzymatic glycosylation of
described in the first two paragraphs.
proteins?
(B) It presents a specific example of the process
A Proteins affected by the process are made unstable.
discussed in the first two paragraphs.
B Glucose attachment impairs and stiffens tissues.
(C) It explains a problem that the researchers
C Glucose is attached to proteins for specific purposes.
mentioned in the second paragraph have yet to solve.
(D) It evaluates the research discoveries described
4. According to the passage, which of the following
in the previous paragraph.
statements is true of Amadori products in proteins?
(E) It begins a detailed description of the process
(A) They are more plentiful in a dehydrated
introduced in the previous two paragraphs.
environment.
(B) They are created through enzymatic glycosylation.
6. The passage suggests that which of the following
(C) They are composed entirely of glucose molecules. would be LEAST important in determining
(D) They are derived from Schiff bases. whether nonenzymatic glycosylation is likely to
(E) They are derived from AGE's have taken place in the proteins of a particular
tissue?
(A) The likelihood that the tissue has been
exposed to free glucose
(B) The color and spectrographic properties of
structures within the tissue.
(C) The amount of time that the proteins in the
tissue have persisted in the body
(D) The number of amino groups within the
proteins in the tissue
(E) The degree of elasticity that the tissue exhibits
1957. It takes a particular talent to be a successful business
If the statements above are true, which of the following
must also be true on the basis of them?
manager. Business courses can help people to solve
management problems, but such courses can do so
(A) People who are helped by business courses in
only for those people with managerial talent. Such
solving management problems also have
people should take business courses to acquire ideas
managerial talent.
that they can subsequently use to good advantage if
(B) People who are already skilled at solving
management problems happen to arise.
management problems are unlikely to benefit
from business courses.
(C) Most ideas that are used successfully in solving
management problems are those acquired in
business courses.
(D) People who lack managerial talent are more
likely to take business courses than are people
who have managerial talent.
(E) Those people who have never taken business
courses are unable to solve management
problems when such problems arise.
196The age at which young children begin to make moral
8.According to the passage, Piaget and Keasey would not
discriminations about harmful actions committed against
have agreed on which of the following points?
themselves or others has been the focus of recent research into
(A) The kinds of excuses children give for harmful
the moral development of children. Until recently, child
acts they commit
psychologists supported pioneer developmentalist Jean Piaget in
(B) The age at which children begin to discriminate
his hypothesis that because of their immaturity, children under
between intentional and unintentional harm
age seven do not take into account the intentions of a person (C) The intentions children have in perpetrating harm
committing accidental or deliberate harm, but rather simply (D) The circumstances under which children punish
assign punishment for transgressions on the basis of the
harmful acts
magnitude of the negative consequences caused.
(E) The justifications children recognize for mitigating
However, in recent research, Keasey found that six- year-old
punishment for harmful acts
children not only distinguish between accidental and intentional
harm, but also judge intentional harm as naughtier, regardless of 9.According to the passage, Keasey's findings support
the amount of damage produced. Both of these findings seem to which of the following conclusions about six-year-old
indicate that children, at an earlier age than Piaget claimed, children?
advance into the second stage of moral development, moral
(A)They have the ability to make autonomous moral
autonomy, in which they accept social rules but view them as
judgments.
more arbitrary than do children in the first stage. (163 words)
(B)They regard moral absolutism as a threat to their
moral autonomy.
(C)They do not understand the concept of public duty.
(D)They accept moral judgment made by their peers
more easily than do older children.
(E)They make arbitrary moral judgments.
197As of the late 1980's. neither theorists nor large-scale
10. Select the sentence that indicates one reason the
computer climate models could accurately predict fourteen models described in the passage failed to
whether cloud systems would help or hurt a warming agree.
globe. Some studies suggested that a four percent increase
in stratocumulus clouds over the ocean could compensate
for a doubling in atmospheric carbon dioxide, preventing
a potentially disastrous planetwide temperature increase.
On the other hand, an increase in cirrus clouds could
increase global warming.
That clouds represented the weakest element in climate
models was illustrated by a study of fourteen such models.
Comparing climate forecasts for a world with double the
current amount of carbon dioxide, researchers found that
the models agreed quite well if clouds were not included.
But when clouds were incorporated, a wide range of
forecasts was produced.
(125 words)
198Exercise 35
It is their sensitive response to human circumstance that
1. Select the sentence that contains the idea the example
accounts for the persistence of certain universal ideas. Rabbi
of democracy is intended to illustrate
Meir, a second-century scholar, admonished his disciples to
look not at the pitcher but at its contents because, he stated,
2.The "new pitcher" mentioned in the passage is the
"Many a new pitcher has been found to be full of old wine." equivalent of which of the following elements in the
Creative ideas not only produce their own instruments of author's discussion of democracy?
survival as time and circumstances demand, but permit the (A) Ancient Greece
substitution of new forms for old under the pressure of (B) The idea of democracy
changed circumstances. For example democracy, as an idea, (C) A modern democratic government
originated in ancient Greece and was carried from there to (D) A dynamic principle
Western Europe and the Americas. But it did not retain the (E) The Greek form of democracy
ancient Greek form: it passed through several reforming
processes and exists today in many countries. Democratic
governments differ in form because democracy is in principle
dynamic and has therefore responded to local needs.
(141 words)
199Aided by the recent ability to analyze samples of air
present interglacial period it has more than doubled in just
trapped in glaciers, scientists now have a clearer idea of the past 300 years and is rising rapidly. Although the
the relationship between atmospheric composition and concentration of atmospheric methane is more than two
global temperature change over the past 160,000 years. orders of magnitude lower than that of carbon dioxide, it
In particular, determination of atmospheric composition cannot be ignored: the radiative properties of methane
during periods of glacial expansion and retreat (cooling make it 20 times more effective, molecule for molecule,
and warming) is possible using data from the 2,000-meter than carbon dioxide in absorbing radiant heat. On the
Vostok ice core drilled in Antarctica. The technique basis of a simulation model that climatological
involved is similar to that used in analyzing cores of researchers have developed, methane appears to have
marine sediments, where the ratio of the two common been about 25 percent as important as carbon dioxide in
18
16
isotopes of oxygen, O and O, accurately reflects past the warming that took place during the most recent glacial
temperature changes. Isotopic analysis of oxygen in the retreat 8,000 to 10,000 years ago.
Vostok core suggests mean global temperature
(445 words)
fluctuations of up to 10 degrees centigrade over the past
160,000 years.
Data from the Vostok core also indicate that the
amount of carbon dioxide has fluctuated with temperature
over the same period: the higher the temperature, the
higher the concentration of carbon dioxide and the lower
the temperature, the lower the concentration. Although
change in carbon dioxide content closely follows change
in temperature during periods of deglaciation, it
apparently lags behind temperature during periods of
cooling. The correlation of carbon dioxide with
temperature, of course, does not establish whether
changes in atmospheric composition caused the warming
and cooling trends or were caused by them.
The correlation between carbon dioxide and
temperature throughout the Vostok record is consistent
and predictable. The absolute temperature changes,
however, are from 5 to 14 times greater than would be
expected on the basis of carbon dioxide's own ability to
absorb infrared radiation, or radiant heat. This reaction
suggests that, quite aside from changes in heat-trapping
gases, commonly known as greenhouse gases, certain
positive feedbacks are also amplifying the temperature
change. Such feedbacks might involve ice on land and sea,
clouds, or water vapor, which also absorb radiant heat.
Other data from the Vostok core show that methane
gas also correlates closely with temperature and carbon
dioxide. The methane concentration nearly doubled, for
example, between the peak of the penultimate glacial
period and the following interglacial period. Within the
200For the following question, consider each of the
5. It can be inferred from the passage that a long-term
choices separately and select all that apply
decrease in the concentration of carbon dioxide in
3. The passage provides information to support which the Earth's atmosphere would
of the following statements about methane EXCEPT? (A) increase methane concentration in the
Earth's atmosphere
A Methane is more effective than carbon dioxide
(B) accompany a period of glaciation
in absorbing radiant heat.
(C) encourage the formation of more oxygen
B The higher the concentration of carbon dioxide
isotopes in the Earth's atmosphere
in the Earth's atmosphere; the lower the
(D) promote the formation of more water in the
concentration of methane.
Earth's global environment
C Most of the global warming that has occurred
(E) increase the amount of infrared radiation
during the past 10 years has been associated with
absorbed by the Earth's atmosphere
increased methane concentration.
6. The passage suggests that when the methane
4. According to the passage, which of the following
concentration in the Earth's atmosphere
statements best describes the relationship between decreases, which of the following also
carbon dioxide and global temperature? happens?
(A) Carbon dioxide levels change immediately
(A) Glaciers melt faster.
in response to changes in temperature.
(B) The concentration of carbon dioxide increases.
(B) Carbon dioxide levels correlate with global
(C) The mean global temperature decreases.
temperature during cooling periods only.
(D) Carbon dioxide absorbs more radiant beat
(C) Once carbon dioxide levels increase, they
(E) More clouds form in the Earth's atmosphere
remain high regardless of changes in global
temperature.
(D)Carbon dioxide levels increase more quickly
than global temperature does.
(E) During cooling periods, carbon dioxide levels
initially remain high and then decline.
201The essential condition for the decay of the vacuum is
7. The author's assertions concerning the conditions
the presence of an intense electric field. As a result of the that lead to the decay of the vacuum would be
decay of the vacuum, the space permeated by such a field most weakened if which of the following occurred?
can be said to acquire an electric charge, and it can be
called a charged vacuum. The particles that materialize in
(A) Scientists created an electric field next to a
the space make the charge manifest. An electric field of vacuum, but found that the electric field was
sufficient intensity to create a charged vacuum is likely to not intense enough to create a charged
be found in only one place: in the immediate vicinity of a vacuum.
superheavy atomic nucleus, one with about twice as many
(B) Scientists assembled a superheavy atomic
protons as the heaviest natural nuclei known. A nucleus nucleus next to a vacuum, but found that no
that large cannot be stable, but it might be possible to virtual particles were created in the vacuum's
assemble one next to a vacuum for long enough to region of space.
observe the decay of the vacuum.
(C) Scientists assembled a superheavy atomic
(131 words)
nucleus next to a vacuum, but found that
they could not then detect any real particles
in the vacuum's region of space.
(D)Scientists introduced a virtual electron and a
virtual positron into a vacuum's region of
space, but found that the vacuum did not
then fluctuate.
(E) Scientists introduced a real electron and a real
positron into a vacuum's region of space, but
found that the total energy of the space
increased by the energy equivalent of the
mass of the particles.
202Historians have only recently begun to note the 8.In the paragraph, the author is primarily concerned with
increase in demand for luxury goods and services that (A) contrasting two theses and offering a compromise
took place in eighteenth-century England. To answer the (B) questioning two explanations and proposing a
question of why consumers became so eager to buy, some
possible alternative to them.
historians have pointed to the ability of manufacturers to
(C) paraphrasing the work of two historians and
advertise in a relatively uncensored press. This, however,
questioning their assumptions
hardly seems a sufficient answer. McKendrick favors a
(D) examining two theories and endorsing one over
Veblen model of conspicuous consumption stimulated by
the other
competition for status. The "middling sort" bought goods
(E) raising several questions but implying that they
and services because they wanted to follow fashions set
cannot be answered.
by the rich. Again, we may wonder whether this
explanation is sufficient. Do not people enjoy buying
9.According to the passage, a Veblen model of
things as a form of self-gratification? If so, consumerism conspicuous consumption has been used to
could be seen as a product of the rise of new concepts of (A) investigate the extent of the demand for luxury
individualism and materialism, but not necessarily of the goods among social classes in eighteenth-
frenzy for conspicuous competition.
(135 words)
century England
(B) classify the kinds of luxury goods desired by
eighteenth-century consumers
(C) explain the motivation of eighteenth-century
consumers to buy luxury goods
(D) establish the extent to which the tastes of rich
consumers were shaped by the middle classes
in eighteenth-century England
(E)compare luxury consumerism in eighteenth-
century England with such consumerism in
the twentieth century
203How can the hormone adrenaline that does not act directly
10.The author refers to the results of the experiment using
on the brain have a regulatory effect on brain function? adrenergic antagonists as "negative findings"
Recently, we tested the possibility that one of the hormone's most likely because the adrenergic antagonists
actions outside the brain might be responsible. Since one
consequence of adrenaline release in an animal is an increase (A) failed to disrupt adrenaline's effect on memory
in blood glucose levels, we examined the effects of glucose on (B) did not affect glucose's ability to enhance memory.
memory in rats. We found that glucose injected immediately (C) did not block adrenaline's ability to increase blood
after training enhances memory tested the next day. Additional
glucose levels
evidence was provided by negative findings: drugs called
(D) only partially affected adrenaline's ability to
adrenergic antagonists, which block peripheral adrenaline
enhance memory
receptors, disrupted adrenaline's ability to regulate memory
(E) disrupted both adrenaline's and glucose's effect
but did not affect memory enhancements produced by glucose
on memory
that was not stimulated by adrenaline. These results are as they
should be if adrenaline affects memory modulation by
increasing blood glucose levels.
(131 words)
204Exercise 36
An experiment conducted aboard Space Lab in 1983 was the
1.It can be inferred from the passage that the author
first attempt to grow protein crystals in the low-gravity would find the Space Lab experiment more impressive
environment of space. That experiment is still cited as if which of the following were true?
evidence that growing crystals in microgravity can increase
(A) The results of the Space Lab experiment could be
crystal size: the authors reported that they grew lysozyme replicated in producing other kinds of crystals in
protein crystals 1,000 times larger than crystals grown in the addition to lysozyme protein.
same device on Earth. Unfortunately, the authors did not
(B) The device used in the experiment produced larger
point out that their crystals were no larger than the average
crystals on Earth than it did in space.
crystal grown using other, more standard techniques in an
(C) The size of the crystals produced in the experiment
Earth laboratory. No research has yet produced results that
exceeded the size of crystals grown in
could justify the enormous costs of producing crystals on a
Earth laboratories using standard techniques.
large scale in space. To get an unbiased view of the
(D)The cost of producing the crystals in space exceeded
usefulness of microgravity crystal growth, crystals grown in that of producing them using standard laboratory
space must be compared with the best crystals that have been techniques.
grown with standard techniques on Earth.
(E) The standard techniques used in Earth laboratories
(139 words)
were modified in the Space Lab experiment due to
the effects of microgravity.
2.Which of the following can be inferred from the
passage about the device used to grow crystals in the
Space Lab experiment?
(A) The device is more expensive to manufacture than are
the devices used in standard techniques in an Earth
laboratory.
(B) The device has not been used to grow crystals in
space since the Space Lab experiment of 1983.
(C) Crystals grown in the device on Earth tend to be
much smaller than crystals grown in it in space.
(D) Crystals grown in the device in space have been
exceeded in size by crystals grown in subsequent
experiments in space using other devices.
(E) The experiments in which the device was used
were conducted with proper controls.
205An experimental version of the traditional scholarly
3. The author of the passage suggests that which of the
methods course was designed to raise students' following is a disadvantage of the strategy employed in
consciousness about the usefulness of traditional learning the experimental scholarly methods course?
for any modern critic or theorist. To minimize the artificial (A) Students were not given an opportunity to study
aspects of the conventional course, the usual procedure of
women writers outside the canon.
assigning a large number of small problems drawn from the
(B) Students' original work would not be appreciated
entire range of historical periods was abandoned, though
by recognized scholars.
this procedure has the obvious advantage of at least
(C) Little scholarly work has been done on the work
superficially familiarizing students with a wide range of
of Elizabeth Griffith.
reference sources. Instead, students were engaged in a
(D) Most of the students in the course had had little
collective effort to do original work on a neglected
opportunity to study eighteenth-century literature.
eighteenth-century writer, Elizabeth Griffith, to give them
(E) Students were not given an opportunity to
an authentic experience of literary scholarship and to encounter certain sources of information that could
inspire them to take responsibility for the quality of their prove useful in their future studies.
own work. Griffith's work presented a number of
advantages for this particular pedagogical purpose. The 4. It can be inferred that the author of the passage con-
body of extant scholarship on Griffith was so tiny that it siders traditional scholarly methods courses to be
could all be read in a day. In addition, because Griffith was (A) irrelevant to the work of most students
successful in the eighteenth century, her exclusion from the (B) inconsequential because of their narrow focus
canon and virtual disappearance from literary history also (C) unconcerned about the accuracy of reference
helped raise issues concerning the current canon.
sources
(179 words)
(D) too superficial to establish important facts about
authors
(E) too wide-ranging to approximate genuine scholarly
activity
5. In the context in which it appears, "canon" most nearly
means
A dogma
○
B classic
○
C tour de force
○
D ordinance
○
E tenet
○
206Experiments show that insects can function as pollinators
For the following question, consider each of the
of cycads, rare, palmlike tropical plants. Furthermore, choices separately and select all that apply
cycads removed from their native habitats-and therefore 6. The passage suggests that which of the following is
from insects native to those habitats-are usually infertile.
true of the structure of cycad cones?
Nevertheless, anecdotal reports of wind pollination in
A The structure of cycad cones provides conclusive
cycads cannot be ignored. The structure of cycads male evidence in favor of one particular explanation
cones is quite consistent with the wind dispersal of pollen, of cycad pollination.
clouds of which are released from some of the larger cones.
B The structure of male cycad cones rules out a
The male cone of Cycas circinalis, for example, sheds possible mechanism for cycad pollination that is
almost 100 cubic centimeters of pollen, most of which is suggested by the structure of most female cycad
probably dispersed by wind. Furthermore, the structure of cones.
most female cycad cones seems inconsistent with direct
C The structure of male cycad cones is consistent
pollination by wind. Only in the Cycas genus are the with a certain means of cycad pollination, but
females' ovules accessible to airborne pollen, since only in that means is inconsistent with the structure of
this genus are the ovules surrounded by a loose aggregation most female cycad cones.
of megasporophylls rather than by a tight cone.
(141 words)
7. The evidence in favor of insect pollination of cycads
presented in the second sentence would be more
convincing if which of the following were also true?
(A) Only a small variety of cycad species can be
successfully transplanted.
(B) Cycads can sometimes be pollinated by means
other than wind or insects.
(C) Insects indigenous to regions to which cycads are
transplanted sometimes feed on cycads.
(D) Winds in the areas to which cycads are usually
transplanted are similar to winds in cycads'
native habitats.
(E) The transplantation of cycads from one region to
another usually involves the accidental removal
and introduction of insects as well.
207Which of the following, if true, most strengthens the
8. That sales can be increased by the presence of sunlight
argument?
within a store has been shown by the experience of
the only Savefast department store with a large
(A) On particularly cloudy days, more artificial light
skylight. The skylight allows sunlight into half of the is used to illuminate the part of the store under
store, reducing the need for artificial light. The rest of the skylight.
the store uses only artificial light. Since the store
(B) When the store is open at night, the departments
opened two years ago, the departments on the sunlit in the part of the store under the skylight have
side have had substantially higher sales than the other
departments. sales that are no higher than those of other
departments.
(C) Many customers purchase items from
departments in both parts of the store on a single
shopping trip.
(D) Besides the skylight, there are several significant
architectural differences between the two parts of
the store.
(E) The departments in the part of the store under the
skylight are the departments that generally have
the highest sales in other stores in the Savefast
chain.
208Influenced by the view of some twentieth-century
9. Select the sentence that includes a qualification of the
feminists that women's position within the family is one of author's critical attitude toward the study of the historians
the central factors determining women's social position, as they are described in the passage.
some historians have underestimated the significance of the
woman suffrage movement. These historians contend that For the following question, consider each of the
nineteenth-century suffragism was less radical and, hence, choices separately and select all that apply
less important than, for example, the moral reform
movement or domestic feminism-two nineteenth-century 10. The passage provides information to support which of
movements in which women struggled for more power and the following statements about the historians discussed in
autonomy within the family. True, by emphasizing these the passage EXCEPT
struggles, such historians have broadened the conventional
view of nineteenth-century feminism, but they do a
A They rely too greatly on the perceptions of the actual
historical disservice to suffragism. Nineteenth-century
participants in the events they study.
feminists and anti-feminist alike perceived the suffragists'
B Their assessment of the significance of nineteenth-
demand for enfranchisement as the most radical element in century suffragism differs considerably from that
women's protest, in part because suffragists were of nineteenth-century feminists.
demanding power that was not based on the institution of
the family, women's traditional sphere.
C They devote too much attention to nineteenth-
(135 words)
century suffragism at the expense of more
radical movements that emerged shortly after
the turn of the century.
209答
案
第一部分
Exe 1
1. C
Exe 6
2. B
3. D
1. E 2. E
4. D 5. E 3. B
6. D 5. AC
7. AB
8. A 9. E 10. B
4. BC
6. E 7. ―Part of this response was...‖
8. A 9. D 10. B
11. D
11. Without invoking gods or demons... 12. D 13. C 12. E 13. ―I have been increasingly impressed with‖
Exe 2 Exe 7
1. A 2. D 3. D 1. C
2. A
4. AB 3. B
4. E 5. A
5. E
6. B
7. C
6. C
8. A 9. AB
11. ABC
7. C
10. E
12. E
8. A 9. ―Their present high standing is due to‖
10. C
11. BC 12. E 13. A
13. ―The fact that distantly related kin...‖
Exe 8
Exe 3 1. C 1. BC 2. C 2. A 3. E
4. C 5. ABC
3. D 4. C
6. B
5. A
7. AC
7. A 8. A
9. E 10. ―The Amazons were often characterized... ‖
6. C
8. ―I do not mean that‖
9. D
11. D
10. C
11. E 12. D
12. D 13. BC
Exe 9
Exe 4
1. C
1. D 2. A 3. B
2. AC
4. D 5. B
3. D 4. A 5. E 6. E 8. B
7. A 8. A 10. C
9. A 10. B
7. C
9. AC
11. A 12. C
11. D
Exe 5
13. ―Undoubtedly such elements‖
Exe 10
1. D 2. B
6. B
6. C
3. AB
4. C 5. E
1. A 2. C
7. ―Long before the Romantics stressed intuition‖
3. BC 4. C
5. D 6. E
8. C 7. D 8. E 9. C
9. D 10. AC 10. AC
11. A 12. E
210
11. C
12. BExe 11
Exe 14
1. D 2. B
5. AB
3. B
6. B
4.B
1. C. 2. C 3 D
7."For example, some of the large
4. B
sedentary" 8. E 5. A C
9. D 7. C 8. B. 9. A
10. E 11. AB
12. A
6. D.
10. D 11. It is now established...
13. D
12. A
Exe 12 Exe 15
1. C 1. Other workers quickly devoured... 2. A 3. B
2. A 3. E
4. A 5. ABC
6. "However, the variations are large
4. A B C
5. But the diabetic generally receives ...
enough" 7. D 6.B 7. D 8. C
8. D 9. A 9. AC 10. D 11. A 12. B
10. C
11. D 12. C 13. B
Exe 16
1. AB 2. Some researchers point out that... 3. A
Exe 13 4. A 5. E
1. C 2. B 3. But the recent discovery... 6. A 7. BC
4. A 8. C
5. D.
6. AB
7.
They were fighting, albeit
9. E 10. B
discreetly, ... 8. A
11. D 12. C 13. The difference between the two is ...
9. C
10. A 11. A 12. E
211第二部分
Exe 17 Exe 22
1. A 2. A 3. B 1. D 2. B
4. B 3. E 4. AC
5. D 5. D
6. B
6. E 7. ―But the play's complex view... ‖ 8. C
7. D
8. B
9. E 10. A
9. ―The critic's knowledge and training are‖ 10. D
Exe 23
Exe 18 1. B
1. BC 2. D 3. B 4. B
4. C
5. D 6. B
7. B
2. A 3. E
5. E
8. E 6. B
9. ―Yet this rush into practical applications‖ 7. A 8. ―This dichotomy has its uses...‖ 9. E 10.
10. C ABC
Exe 19 Exe 24
1. E 2. D 3. B 1. E
4. D 2. ―Practically speaking, the artistic maturing...‖ 3. D
5. A 6. D 4. ABC
7. A 8. A 7. E 8. E
9. ABC 9. D 10. C
10. "When speaking of Romare Bearden"
5. C
6. C
Exe 20 Exe 25
1. D 2. ―These minerals can be dated...‖ 1. A 2. C
3. B 3. A 4. D 5. AC
4. AB
5. C
6. B
7. A 8. B 7. B
9. B 8. C
10. AB 10. E
Exe 21 Exe 26
1. D 1. A
2. D 3. A 4. B
9. B
2. B 3. ABC
6. E 4. B 5. E
7. D 6. D 7. C
8. B
9. ABC
5. A
6. B
8. E 9. A
10. ―She shunned bodily ornamentation‖
10. D
212Exe 27 Exe 32
1. D 1. A
2. E 3. E 4. BC
5. A
6. D
7. B
8. ―The Earth's magnetic field is generated‖
2. B 3. A 4. D 5. D
6. B 7. BC
8. D
9. E 10. B 9. C
Exe 28 Exe 33
1. ABC
4. B
2. B
5. C
10. B
3. A 1. C 2. B
6. E 7. C 3. C 4. D 5. A 6. D
8. ―Perhaps he believed that‖ 7. A
9. D 8."The advantage of digital over photographic imaging "
10. B 9. D 10. C
Exe 29 Exe 34
1. B 1. C
2. ABC
2. E
3. D 3. AB
4. A 5. D 6. C 7. A
7. E 8. ―Many of the important effects‖ 8. B
9. E 10. D 10."But when clouds were incorporated"
Exe 30 Exe 35
1. A 2. D 1. ―Creative ideas not only produce‖ 2. C
3.C 3. BC 4. E 5. B
4. B 5. D 6. A 7. C
7. D 8. E 9. D 8. B
10. E 10. B
Exe 31 Exe 36
1. A 1. C
2. A 3. D 4. "The trees' own defenses raise...." 5. BC 3. E 4. E 5. B
6. A 7. D 6. C
8. B 8. B
9. E 10. C 9. ―True, by emphasizing these struggles‖ 10. AC
[THE END]
213
4. D 5. E 6. D
9. A
6. C
9. C
2. C
7. D
